as low as he could get it .
but here we had not seen a white man for two weeks , not since we had left babati to
" " because he came here the most times , " the old man said .
' i got the bloody tragedian .
' please drink a glass of this with me .
" look , jake .
" had no idea what hour it was , " brett said .
first , economically .
frazer felt .
and he went on figuring .
you can figure it out .
we’re probably being followed by the game police now .
but i am not unarmed .
” i hit him in the face and he stood up and then climbed up onto the dock .
f— your sister… .
it was clear and smooth and very brown .
" he can ' t pull that stuff with me , jerry .
“you big mountain of pus .
you love me , don’t you , sheet ?
” “why didn’t you show them to me ?
" " do sit down , count , " i said .
pointing at the pheasants and pulling the bed toward the window , and then , just as in a comic
it is just a decision as the one about crying .
i am sure his loss was a blow to science as well as to his family .
was like a fishhook caught in his pocket that pricked him occasionally as he walked .
nick leaned back against the current and took a hopper from the bottle .
” “good-bye , ” said alice .
of a hotel bell-boy who stooped and picked up the hats and canes thrown down onto the sand and tossed
" " i ' ll write him and give him a chance to pull out of it .
occupying trieste .
it was quite light and any moment now the sun would rise .
" " well , mother , it looks as though we better go back and get another breakfast .
we were working there in the old homestead the next day , shielding the camera lens as carefully as possible
" " not much .
in the day we must cover distance .
he lay forward cramping himself against the line with all of his body , putting all his weight onto his
, although to all appearances he was dead .
it was pleasant to be burned black but the sun had been very tiring .
' ' i thought you said we were condottieri .
" heil !
we circled him , looking at him and then the wanderobo-masai , reaching underneath while i held the shoulder up
had done .
he breathed against it gently .
" shoot him .
" " for how long ?
wish i could tell him that .
he drove the knife in again , and the bull went over , twitching and rigid .
i ' ll kill you two to-morrow on that lick .
around back of the grandstand to go up the stairs and get a place to watch the race .
” the down-state man said to his partner .
said , and they went out to the car .
' , and shook his head sadly .
surprising how few of them died .
' ' some crab _enchillada_ , in the style of this town , but cold , first .
_ _num_ st soldier_--say , george , can ' t you give this gentleman something to fix up his stomach
after lunch we went over to the iruña .
was simply an opening in the trees with a patch of earth worn into deep circles and grooved at the
him .
you can purchase others in milan .
the road curved and climbed again , and ahead there were some grouse dusting in the road .
i was enjoying it .
" " i ' ll come back .
but imagine if a man each day should have to try to kill the sun ?
the bull was on him as he jumped back and as he tripped on a cushion he felt the horn
with this nose ?
” “what do you think ?
how do you feel , jake ?
" bill gestured with the drumstick in one hand and the bottle of wine in the other .
i ' m going to take a nap .
knew just what he had to do and not jerking and standing up on his legs and getting wild eyed
“i didn’t mean it , ” he said .
but there was no choice .
can he be a compatriot ?
maera saw him and then i saw him .
” “nobody knew where you were but me .
” “what’s it all about , your excellency ?
pinin stood beside the bunk .
' or through the bois with the top down .
i want to go back in the country in south america .
inside it was quite dark .
papers .
' ' i ' ll think up some more .
" that ' ll do , " hogan said when he saw me come in .
elizabeth .
and where i had led it now pleased me very much .
" i asked brett .
he came back and he said , “harry , can i have one of those now ?
“what the hell ?
before the lorries arrived the old man came back with the skinniest , hungriest , most unsuccessful looking of wanderobos
pop was studying him with his binoculars .
marie , his femme de ménage , protesting against the eight-hour day saying , “if a husband works until six
" no monkey business .
" with so much flying fish there should be dolphin , " he said , and leaned back on the
i told him on a cold night like this he’d ought to bundle up so the whole inside of his
he was really relieved : life in the army was too complicated .
, or a disease as a subject , while , really , it was just something quite irreplaceable that they
i did not sleep much that night on the sud express .
' ' as you wish , my colonel .
yes , he said , maybe you will .
nick walked up the dark street to the corner under the arc-light , and then along the car-tracks to henry
i thought the pain alone would kill me .
" i thought perhaps he was a little lightheaded and after giving him the prescribed capsules at eleven o '
' it is all gone except that lorry .
this whole show makes me sick is all .
“you don’t think once you moved it it wouldn’t hurt so bad ?
their coats had been opened too and their pockets were out , and they showed , by their positions ,
safe for me to live with him again--i did not come in close contact with him at any time since
i’d shoot one but it’s too late now .
anybody ever tell you you were a good guy ?
" " exactly , " said johnson .
' and i will have a detail guarding the gates of hell so that no such characters enter .
the german fell in the same disconcerting heartbreaking way and lay in the road with the vélo upside down and
he had been nicer to nick than anybody ever had .
splayzey what ?
' ' do you want this one ?
way .
" no , " said montoya , " i have to go .
you have a fine body and you must not think about that .
" listen to him .
" " i guess so , " said nick .
i guess if you are doing it for dough there isn’t enough dough to pay for doing it .
there are plenty of things i can do .
a walk .
he lives on the live fish as you do .
you do not hear the noise of the shot on game but the slap of the bullet sounded as he
" " tons .
the next shark that came was a single shovel-nose .
had .
v in black paint with drippings of paint down the wall .
” nick opened the door and went into the room .
” “steve couldn’t have said that .
” nick had rolled the pack now and tightened the straps and he sat back and put his moccasins on
" " would you like a drink of something ?
' ' no , you ' re the bird shot .
there is to know about the town .
' pop , without looking at him , spoke a few words to garrick in a very soft voice .
" " what a morning !
” “is that him ?
" " want to go back to the café ?
no horse named morbid ever won a race .
" " this is serious , " i said to bill .
" doctor wilcox said .
his two hands touching , the banderillos two descending red lines , and leaning forward drove the points into the
” “would you kneel and pray with me , harold ?
that will get them done and i have to do them to make up for that whoring on the coast
love her .
they came on such a flat trajectory you hardly had time to hold a breath between the rush and the
“schmidt is catholique , ” madame fontan mused .
you don’t have to take me in as an equal or a partner .
the man behind had dropped to the ground .
there are lots of lawless people in it but the work is done by the prisoners .
i like much better .
they came by in cars shooting at everybody they saw .
compatriot ?
you know you still move like a colt ?
it was dark inside .
it was a gray overcast day with a low ceiling so their planes were not up .
the two men who sat on the aisle were talking .
heavy built and with a fine curving pair of horns .
“if he hooks up i’ll chase him .
money hasn ' t come , " he paused .
he was hit three times that winter , but they were all gift wounds ; small wounds in the flesh
bank , or when we ground in low gear up a steep place , the light slanting up ahead .
' the colonel made no small talk on this but said , ' i love venice as you know .
that ' s what you really get out of it , ' pop said .
anyway there wasn ' t another thing for them to hit till they ' d get to mexico once they
thought that probably ruined me morally .
” tom asked .
he could hear the ducks passing in the darkness , and feel the restless lurching of the dog .
" " i mean were your college days the happiest days of your life ?
that’s why you came along .
manuel offered him the cape again .
“did you ever eat such filthy food ?
" nick had killed eddie gilby , then pardoned him his life , and he was a man now .
the big leagues when he was my age .
more like a peace officer or an honest gambler than a storekeeper .
” “no , ” alice said in that sweet lovely voice , “you haven’t got any real memories except having
stepping back cautiously , they saw his face was white and sweating .
is underneath the sand and the game comes down at night and digs in the sand with sharp-pointed hoofs and
” “do you think there will still be wild strawberries ?
" hullo !
bill flashed the spotlights on cars alongside the road in the trees , making the occupants change their positions .
" " she wanted to get out of town and she can ' t go anywhere alone .
but who could tell you to go out and hang yourself the way we do ?
” “where are the other kids ?
also all these men were gentlemen , or wished to be .
the bright light while the crowd shouted .
“it’s coming right off the big lake , ” nick said .
of the tenets of his faith , but what if he got excited and missed , and why didn '
“that’s no good , ” madame fontan said .
published in _num_ , those stories are now well known .
nice-looking horse , all right , but nothing like kzar .
“this is all convict labor country through here .
" " he got hurt .
" get that little thin mexican in here , will you , please ?
“it makes a great difference , davey , ” his father said .
” “it will not last , certainly .
they were sweethearts ; sure he’s a queen , didn’t you know that , of course he is .
that ' s what t _num_ jackson wants .
we passed the bull-ring , high and white and concrete-looking in the sun , and then came into the big
i said .
it looked , now , like a gut shot or one through the paunch .
” “that was the day we caught so many fish but had to come in because it was rough .
jack was sitting on the bed .
” “salud , comrade , ” the little man said , standing up .
“jimmy , ” my father said .
in this way he lost everything .
" " hardly .
] _num_ d soldier—that false alarm !
” “does it make any difference whether i do or not ?
he could adjust himself to almost any movement .
" " when i was your age i was before the mast on a square rigged ship that ran to
“come in here a minute .
there were only three bodies in the street and they looked to have been killed running .
cohn was still talking to brett .
then they ' re not used to that sort of thing .
walking .
aloysius kirby announce the marriage of their daughter katherine--i knew neither the girl nor the man she was marrying .
” “i guess everything reminds you of something” is a completed short story set in cuba , where hemingway made
the newspaper men all sat at one table and the other tables were filled with officers and girls from chicote’s
” “i’d muffle it all right .
romero turned and tried to get through the crowd .
and anecdotes about who was killed when and where if you want them .
we went out to wherever they were runnning every day with the car from maisons and that was the most
bright now , went on around the boulders , over the rocks and up and up and left us on
he was funny all right .
were different and everything was a little different .
that is all i ' ve ever wanted .
“we’re playing indoor over at school this afternoon , ” she said .
but i’ve let them run a month and got the money .
que tal ?
you put me to the test and see what a good man i am .
jim was short and dark with big mustaches and big hands .
" " the purple land " is a very sinister book if read too late in life .
were hunting insects and let the boy and girl come close as they moved sharply and delicately in the cedars
" " she wouldn ' t like it .
“it wasn’t my idea .
we had been up that morning since five o’clock .
over the hill and herded up again together here .
he could not know that wilson was furious because he had not noticed the state he was in earlier and
' ' did you ski all night ?
i didn’t say anything .
" sure , " said fontan .
” the stranger asked .
and with their reeds bent by the heavy north wind , he saw the squared tower of the church at
well he’d dropped all that .
have you seen the hundred and forty-fifth ?
the crowd came over the barrera and around the torero and two men grabbed him and held him and some
he slashed one , two , three , four , five , six .
we trailed them , all three , but no man ' s track joined theirs .
' pop whispered .
just then the car came up and stopped in front of the dining tent and the driver and the two
right next to it was another saloon , also with gambling and a dining room , that was called the
when they seen him go up there they didn’t want any of it .
sometime , portrait , for your sins , if you have any , you ought to have to sleep in
“why not order her to stay in camp ?
” i went over to the booth and called the same number i had given the waiter .
clean towels hung on a rack by the washbowl and there was a pole at one end of the room
but i could remember the odour of the kudu as he lay in the woods .
' that ' s it , ' she said .
“but it’s just a touch murderous .
“you’re not a lengua larga , are you ?
his hand still up , he spoke to the bull .
” “ah , ” said the lady , crestfallen , “he doesn’t take bananas .
, rest and light exercise , boy .
" bring me some , " said mr .
“what had i ought to give them ?
then he hit the buck and broke its neck .
nor can you stand before a bar with dignity although that is all that is provided for these hours .
i ' d like to get her a good purdey _num_ , not too damn light , or a pair
" " you can ' t read anything .
the boy was as pretty as a girl and looked rather shy and stupid .
" " oh , i know .
another sudden lurch by the fish and he stood up and braced himself and held his hand up against the
' your cardiograph was wonderful , colonel .
some dancers formed a circle around brett and started to dance .
if that ' s what you mean .
i ' d make some money some way and when we came back we would come to the old man
” “i love it the way it is .
them go .
” “bad black lonesome .
" in the thigh , i think .
, roger , drove .
” “are you happy to be back from the war ?
others , of the older fishermen , looked at him and were sad .
all you have to do is live a certain time as man and wife .
two policemen with rifles , who had come in off the street patrol , were standing by the door and
why don’t you turn in ?
” he asked , still nasty .
' ' i would rather have you tell me than anything .
it ' s the way you are supposed to be and later on you will think you are very fortunate
” “nickie , honestly i don’t think they’re intelligent enough to track anybody .
“you got a hair from your head ?
in the silvretta the skiing had been all right , but it was spring skiing , the snow was good
" " don ' t neglect to insert the brandy , james , " the first client said .
take repair kit and extra sweaters and pyjamas in our rucksacks and not give a damn about school or anything
i ' m perfectly all right .
” the little man asked .
his legs were still good for this season , and when they should go he was intelligent and experienced enough
he was through with the hotel garden , breaking up frozen manure with a dung fork .
” the girl came back to the car .
the other shark had been in and out and now came in again with his jaws wide .
' ' i can tell you hundreds of them .
how much we owe ?
go to this one .
' i ' ve made a decision too .
we got the bejesus beat out of us .
” he was that way all week .
" " you wouldn ' t walk across the street .
why didn ' t he hold it ?
" " we ' ll fish together again , some time .
“c’est un bon pays pour la chasse , ” fontan said .
" " sit down .
' the first day most of them came over and dropped the christmas tree ornaments that confuse the other people
” a thin-lipped voice came over the phone .
the goats watched me dig .
“got the spine .
” “how would you stop her ?
" you can ' t get this in america , eh ?
“there is no wine .
” “you fix it up so we keep track of them .
' ' no , ' said olz .
" i was introduced to the people at the table .
stick , not looking nearly so admirable and very over-blown with ashes .
” “don’t .
" i say that is wine , " brett held up her glass .
and , with pop holding his big gun ready and i with the safety off mine , m ' cola
that ' s not the order they ' re good in .
' the colonel indicated the three-storey , rose-coloured , small , pleasant palace abutting on the canal .
william campbell took a drink from the bottle .
" they expected their money the next day .
with streams i really know .
two lovely looking girls .
anyway i hope not .
mouth on the floor .
" tell her they ' re playing them off their feet , " mr .
they are in a semi-circle , covered with cut grass and connected by a heavy tarred line which may be
" i want to work , " manuel said .
i will be there at once .
“i’m going on to the town .
gone and on the rocky ground we could not find their tracks .
i’ll keep you backed up .
it had been forwarded from pamplona .
” “what about the gun-bearers ?
i don ' t go in america , only sometimes in a long while .
" i swung at him and he ducked .
' ' by god , i _am_ a good bird shot .
there were two beds , a washstand , a clothes-chest , and a big , framed steel-engraving of nuestra señora
by the right-hand side of the road where the indian poled his dugout .
" " yes , " retana said .
“oh , for chrisake , ” the detective sergeant said , and put his notebook in his pocket .
he came back up and said it was half past nine .
thieves and telephone racers .
' cola asked about the camp .
it ' s a nice town .
' ' i thought we drew lots for where we would hunt .
chaves or hernandez ?
" the mexican said at the door .
" i tapped with my finger-tips on the table .
" go on to the infirmary , man , " he said .
" it ' s high , " i said .
" there were only two trains up from san sebastian , an early morning train and the one we had
“say , ” said john .
he was a little man and he wore a cap .
“sorry , ” he said , outside her window with the blinds drawn .
” the porter smiled at him .
' he ' s gone into handeni .
it was a fine morning .
we had sent him after meat while we had gone into a new country .
the waiter watched him go down the street , a very old man walking unsteadily but with dignity .
” “goddam them for me , too , ” his sister said .
" count mippipopolous , meet my friend lady ashley .
you’re not a gangster .
“i beg your pardon if i intrude , ” he said in english , “but it has just occurred to
through , except in patches ; in the fast deep water , in the half light , the fishing would
t _num_ jackson was in the boat with the luggage and the portrait , which had been well and sturdily
" " i wish you luck , truly , and with all my heart , " mr .
up away from the stream it was not so cold .
then when luck comes you are ready .
the porter said it was a very good cut but that the cow was lean .
' ' you know , i ' ve never seen one , ' pop said .
corto y derecho , he drew the sword out of the muleta , profiled on the splintered left horn ,
' she walked ahead and the colonel said , ' you walk like a champion before he is the champion
” “il faut revenir tout de suite après le show , ” madame fontan said .
i ' m not being so gentle , he thought .
mp l e t e d by he m i n gw ay .
well i will try to be a good boy to-morrow all day ; starting at first light .
it isn’t so far to the berries now .
but his pain could drive him mad .
behind him was the chauffeur carrying a basket of champagne .
like a bird dog .
i remembered i had promised to take bill ' s friend edna to see the bulls go through the street
” evans asked her .
” his father sat down in a chair beside the oil-cloth-covered table .
" " come on , " said brett .
” “it is very good , ” said the smallest one .
until her husband spoke to her suddenly and sharply , then in explanation and quiet command , and she moved
" i could go with you again .
" " no , " said the girl , " i can ' t .
" your friends morgan and steinfelt , " jack said .
sauce est meilleure que le jack .
pulling shirts over their heads and pulling boots on and it all smelled hot and sweaty and linimenty and outside
he was wearing a formal white jacket , cut long , and he smiled at them and said , '
” “corto y derecho , ” he thought , furling the muleta .
” he wrote it down .
i don ' t mind .
the reference , like all references to fashions , dates the story but it is retained because of its mild
all i want is to be a saint .
' ' as i was telling colonel phillips , ' kandisky began , shifting his leather-breeched behind and crossing one
each thing that he did with this bull wiped that out a little cleaner .
it would not be possible to walk through a swamp like that .
feel .
we were very happy , too , not to have to fight .
” “but instead ?
” macomber felt a drunken elation .
both his father and juma seemed very sure of themselves and the going on the elephant road was so easy
' with clara dunn .
i wish it was me who could love you .
i’ll never travel on a rapide again at night .
the six chinks , mr .
his father brought in a piece of cold chicken on a plate and a pitcher of milk and put them
saw out of her own eyes .
' watch your beautiful mouth a little on that .
" the one blonde looked at the other and shook her head .
“sure , ” said nick .
” “that’s right .
see ?
, even if he didn’t show it .
” “it’s quite something to have met you , ” nick put out his hand .
the damned moors .
' ' there is much wind , my colonel , and the room is badly heated due to the lack
and had three medals of the sort we each had only one of .
later bill and mike came in to get me to go down and eat with them .
going down the streets in the morning on the way to mass in the cathedral , i heard them singing
” “don’t lie too much , ” she said .
' i mean as a man .
chevreuil with the saddle and joyce and i got drunk because we were off for africa the next day .
he was all ready now and wanted to start .
no one challenged .
" " it seems not , " the girl said .
” said a flyer .
” “wonderful , ” i said .
restaurant , and i cleaned off the wind-shield , the lights and the license plates with a rag .
" what did you do with the lovely edna ?
i have seen a lot , too .
and yet , he thought , seeing now the little villa , close up against the water , ugly as
' he would like some hides but he doesn ' t care about oryx hide .
hold him .
his father had summed up the whole matter by stating that masturbation produced blindness , insanity , and death ,
you won ' t ask him to stay ?
he’s had enough fight , so he’s watching now .
” that night jack didn’t sleep any either .
" my head is not that clear .
" " don ' t you think it will be a bit rough on him ?
but looking at him lying there it certainly was a temptation .
packard doesn’t see it that way .
" listen to this .
' ' how are his kids ?
we must try to live up to it .
in the street .
society ' s hoofer and the world ' s .
' i never drink , ' kandisky said .
” “oh , for christ sake stop bragging , will you ?
' ' it ' s just a muscle , ' the colonel said .
" i went back to my room and packed up to go in to town .
a man can’t get along that don’t sleep .
" i don ' t know , " manuel said .
" " what brought it on ?
the rest , then i prayed for myself again , and while i was praying for myself i found i
time and again at noon .
" " come on , play some cribbage , " jack says .
for him stopping to get some feed .
don ' t say such a thing .
there were wonderful trees along the promenade above the beach , and there were many children sent down with their
look at that green .
each man must take his responsibility .
his knees were shaking and with the shaking he could feel the ends of the bone in his upper arm
' ' please let me feel it , ' she said .
" " i ' m sick of hearing you talk .
it felt as though he were hooked into the log itself , except for the live feeling .
his first " quite " was directly below us .
” “what sort of a car ?
” “and i will take care of you .
he used to help me load plenty of times .
above this face , which was ceaselessly peering , as though the answer might be found by enough well directed
it was the hot , blood-flanked mass of the bull that thudded by , then turned like a cat and
gave his letters rather a bitter tone .
" " sounds like vienna , " bill said .
isn ' t it mystic ?
he did not notice the old used steel of his eyes nor the small long extending laugh wrinkles at the
" " we ' ll have to go , " nick said .
if one can say _ciao_ to a colonel .
” “i always have fun when there’s any time .
“i can’t quote , ” he said .
they were afraid to travel in the dark and i told droopy he could keep my big gun .
fontan knocked on the door .
from smith’s back door liz could see ore barges way out in the lake going toward boyne city .
” “he must have come in the kitchen , through a window maybe , and loaded that stuff .
” “all of them .
forearms straight up and their hands gripped tight .
, but there was never any action taken , although many felt it was a shame the hospital could not
but where you going to get a pillow when you need a razor ?
he was very careful about money and did not care for women .
it was only driven under cover .
" " you do not understand .
and here were sable now , and i must play it right and get the best one .
now we knew what we had to do .
“turn like a bull .
the fiesta was finished .
my god , yes , that’s true .
" the wavy blond one answered : " don ' t you worry , dear .
' i meant shoot you .
“i just want to get my money’s worth .
' ' he didn ' t have a chance to talk after b ' wana m ' kumba started .
” “it seems not , ” the girl said .
if we could kill a piece .
" " oh , i ' m sure of that .
nick cleaned them , slitting them from the vent to the tip of the jaw .
first time a girl is unwell , but i have been upset .
most of the men sat against the wall smoking , empty coffee-cups and liqueurglasses before them on the tables .
they were not talking now but were both leaning forward on the table .
he thought about france and then he began to think about germany .
" he won ' t be back before five o ' clock .
began to seem very impossible and romantic and quite untrue .
the right tusk was as thick as his own thigh and it curved down almost to the ground .
“a regular little spitfire .
kamau brought me the tins and i told him to open one of fruit .
a big porcelain stove shone in the corner of the room .
the crowd did not want it ever to be finished .
” “this is not a good place to stop , ” i said .
two of the trees that grew together , and read .
" the mother of a queen when his father died he was only a kid and his manager buried him
" he ' s in room number eight , " montoya explained .
but you were going to be away from them anyway weren’t you ?
" max looked at george .
' ' then he is the only man who is , ' the colonel said .
in the daytime the street was dusty , but at night the dew settled the dust and the old man
something felt very small and tight inside the girl .
that limits you of course .
chapter ii minarets stuck up in the rain out of adrianople across the mud flats .
' ' i ' ll drink to him then , ' she said .
” “that’s how you lose .
plastered houses painted brown below , the long green of the autobus in that round square , the purple flower
his former rank .
“did you put your shoes out ?
' but it is all right to give something to celebrate .
they ' re supposed to feed right out in the open .
it was bright and cold and the air came through the open wind-shield .
still climbing , then levelled out onto a dark street behind st .
" " the café suizo .
german prisoners who had been taken by irregulars were often as cooperative as head waiters or minor diplomats .
" " i know vevey , " said my wife .
" " i hope you ' re not thinking of leaving ?
' please put your arms around me , gently and well .
we went out to the café napolitain to have an apéritif and watch the evening crowd on the boulevard .
i was sure p .
“here comes mr .
but the outfit now were drunk excited .
“he said , ‘in tactics you attack the enemy from in front .
she touched me with one hand and i put her hand away .
would have wished to be .
" your stew is excellent , " the old man said .
stood in a corner drawn up against the wall , had a gun up .
nobody shoots better than you here except alvarito and he ' s a kid and shoots faster .
pedro romero nodded , seeming very far away and dignified when we shook hands .
he would get fifty dollars for this night’s work .
he ' s dead .
apple trees when they are in blossom .
was looking in , over to the _num_ franc mutuel machine .
” “did it again tonight too , ” blindy said happily .
the russian crawled under a table and was hit , finally , by a stray shot fired at the mexican
there were many grebes , making spreading wakes in the water as they swam , and i was counting them
and sit down with me and lean back against the tree with the towel and a sweater wrapped around his
bataille_ .
he had six bottles of champagne under his arms and in his hands and he said , “what the hell’s
there were small clearings around the villages where the vines grew , and then the woods .
but we were kidding ourselves plenty that it was not too far .
it ' s masson .
, and placed them in the centre of the dining-room table .
buffalo had been out would have gone back deep into the forest to rest out of the heat .
" they ought to take this damn humidity away .
' ' i doubt that .
" big ones ?
and make a play .
a flit gun is always useful .
” “spit it out .
' ' i ' m glad we don ' t have to know him or the nylon-smooth man , '
" we used to go all day to hunt black squirrels , " he said .
grass under my soft-soled boots and the pleasant weight of the rifle , held just back of the muzzle ,
as near as i could make out he was offering them the empty petrol boxes in exchange for a piece
' i ' m a mister , by the way .
artesian well where the water came straight up in the sunlight out of a brown water-film covered pipe .
he was beginning to suffer .
" i ' m going back to the kitchen with the nigger and bright boy , " he said .
" george opened the slit that opened back into the kitchen .
brute animals .
she looked at him and put out her hand .
" " no , here .
" i got hungry and woke up .
it was a huge , beautiful kudu bull , stone-dead , on his side , his horns in great dark
" he did not remember when he had first started to talk aloud when he was by himself .
' ' what is your great sorrow ?
but i must have confidence and i must be worthy of the great dimaggio who does all things perfectly even
sing say something in chink and all the chinks in the boat started to climb onto the stern .
” “a woman who doesn’t upset by an attack is no woman , ” said johnny .
“oh , can’t you be decent ?
" he didn ' t knock me out , " mike said .
elliot was quite sick .
damn the rain .
" " oh , sure , " i said .
" the cement road stopped .
you were sleeping when i left .
hebrew wine-seller—here you are , gentlemen .
now on the day of the starting of the fiesta of san fermin they had been in the wine-shops of
" " no , " said william campbell .
once bled , i started to open him , with the little knife , still showing off to droopy ,
nick sat down on the bundle of canvas and bedding the baggage man had pitched out of the door of
i think he ' s off his feed a little .
” “don’t try .
he ' s much better .
she had never written like that before .
he looked at him carefully , gentling him as you might gentle a horse .
he would like to get him to substitute for larita because he could get him cheaply .
the limestone outcropping in the same way , the way the land lies , the trees along the watercourses and
, was within the room with the high , dark but well-mirrored armoire , the two good beds , the
" " tell her i don ' t take bananas .
it was understood all right .
last night he brought a little bit home with him , what you drank , and a little bit of
“see that patch of bush ?
" " perhaps that was because i wore braces , " i said .
i thought , there’s no sense to do it now .
' ' i could always make money , and besides i have been very lucky .
” “yes , we take a beating , ” said macomber , still not looking at him .
“you don’t belong to the club any more , ” i told him , speaking as nearly english as i
marjorie sat on the blanket with her back to the fire and waited for nick .
but during the regular daytime george talked just like anyone else , except even less , and very polite ,
' ' it is , ' i said .
i had not expected any cornfield and i resented it .
the big luger he had , holding it in both hands to keep it steady .
his broken ribs and wondered if the elephant had recognized him when he had tried to kill him .
“my daughter .
father but want to believe my husband most--please , please tell me what to do--i have a daughter born while
me looking at him he’d grin and say , “sweating plenty ?
belts protruding from the boxes , the water-cooling can empty and on its side , the breech block gone ,
they belonged to me for ever .
" we will drink champagne .
been calcimined over in a new building .
' ' tell it to me and don ' t be bad .
" " i know it , " romero said .
and she gave me her love , some hard stones , which i returned , and the picture .
it was embroidered on to the coat he wore in silver thread .
one morning he read in the paper that enrico caruso had been arrested for mashing .
" " the hell with him .
" goddamned mossbacks , " she said .
” “mr .
' ' it ' s okay , ' the colonel had said .
” “‘well , ’ said olz , ‘when she died i made the report to the commune and i put
" what ' s that for ?
just a moment , madame , and i ' ll look for your name .
it was dim and quiet , and there were other people praying .
grass stem , hold it with each hand and shave the sweat off his forehead and bald black crown with
it was a very young book and had one fine description of fighting in it , where the french take
“i never worried about it at all , ” the girl said .
” “it comes at the end of a sentence , ” he said .
" when he said this he smiled , anxious that neither the bull-fight critic nor i would think he was
" i had a boat train to catch with a week ' s mail stories , and only half of
and that i would write it sometime .
” “dear butstein , ” nick said .
you promised .
going down-hill steeply made these spanish shooting boots too short in the toe and there was an old argument ,
” she said scornfully .
yes , maera said , and who will kill his bulls after he gets a cogida ?
' ' nothing .
" we ' re going to have supper .
first time i go down in magallanes harbor i see oc-toe-pus .
abdullah , the short , thick-nosed , educated one , was his tracker .
" i ' m all right , " jack says .
“i said we were going out , ” i said .
it was hard going for the old man .
‘the butterfly and the tank .
it was all right .
” “he’s been shot already , ” said the officer .
please talk , i ' m taking care of you .
boy , you sure get tired of them .
he stopped and lifted the lid of the ice-box .
, down to the other restaurant a block beyond the green lantern .
' just be careful around the centre , ' the colonel said .
' standing in front of the canvas circle of the latrine i looked , as each morning , at that
it is not permitted to drink in the café with the clients .
remember all the fine ones in the resistance , remember foch both fought and organized and remember how fine the
but i always feel strange .
" " have another brandy , " the count said .
leaving the town there was a bare open space where the road slanted down and he could see the placid
did you ever hear a blind man won ' t smoke because he can ' t see the smoke come
we all started down the stairs together , being very careful about the holes in the marble , and walking
there was a great shouting going on in the grandstand overhead .
for a while the country was much as it had been ; then , climbing all the time , we
' in what town are we anyway ?
“remember we have to fill the ice jug .
look at frances there , and jo .
he was carrying a long staff , and he had a kid slung on his back , tied by the
we kept the blood bright and wet but we could not come up on him .
" hello , danny , " john says .
' i ' m feeling better myself .
macomber , wilson and the gun-bearer got down .
” “we’ll have that and then , in the morning , we’ll be on our way .
two is enough from one family , the colonel said .
it would be too dark to do anything about it without a mess .
sharp at the edge of this extension of the forest floor commenced the sweet fern .
let me hold him .
there is no translation for this word and perhaps it is just a noise such as a man might make
he pulled the socks on and slumped back in the chair , putting his feet up on the screen in
it’s not good to be catholique .
jewfish .
" i went to the office in the elevator .
" " hey , looie , " the waiter called to the next room , " chaves got cogida .
' i never stole anything except the compass because i thought it was bad luck to steal , unnecessarily ,
“i suppose not .
he felt helena against him where they were crowded .
it on one of his greyest days .
everyone wore them in the old days in this city and the faces were those of their confidential servants .
” “is best go then , ” said john .
” “it is a historic tune , ” the mexican said .
” “what we goin’ to do ?
you know me , don’t you ?
“better than drowning , ” she said .
' ' i don ' t have that .
there was a mist over the center of the swamp .
” “that surprises me , ” roger said .
life was opening out .
“no , ” the waitress said .
' s puttee-ed leg in a sandbag so there would be no powder burns and loose off at his friend
our heads .
" bill asked me .
brush from under the stern .
you ' ve got a first-rate bushbuck .
she couldn’t sleep well from thinking about him but she discovered it was fun to think about him too .
for them to live in , he corrected .
" she tells me you never made a sound , " mr .
nick opened the door and went in .
oh , yes , yes , yes !
wilson had ducked to one side to get in a shoulder shot .
horns much more sweeping .
" " i don ' t know .
' ' you are a lucky girl if you can write truly what you hear or think .
" poor chap , he looks awfully down , " braddocks said .
' ' they ' re very exciting , ' p .
it was quite dark outside .
the dentuso is cruel and able and strong and intelligent .
the others twisted themselves like corkscrews , their elbows raised , and leaned against the flanks of the bull after
i walked home across the town with the meat heavy under my arm .
" truly ?
it sings well , he thought .
, of the town rising up from the bluff above the river .
” “was the letter you got monday—from her ?
" olé !
the basque wagged a forefinger at him and handed the bottle back , slapping in the cork with the palm
” “i just changed your name , didn’t i ?
you know a good town ?
' ' excuse me , ' he said .
the way you like to think of me .
“muy raro .
drag with the waiter because my old man drank whisky and it cost five francs , and that meant a
stands .
the three-inch pieces and then the rising cry of the shells coming toward us and going on over our heads
" your eyes will be all right .
shoulder went forward between the horns as the sword went in , and for just an instant he and the
this boy brought the remains of st .
nick put on his mackinaw coat and his shoes .
' ' tell me about when you were a general .
a sixth story , “under the ridge , ” would appear shortly in the march _num_ edition of cosmopolitan .
“there will be plenty of money coming through on krauts .
" you are a beautiful boy , " i said .
' m ' cola was crouched close talking , making an explanation .
' ' what ' s going on in america ?
not even stepped on .
and rubbed her cropped head against his cheek .
" ay , " the old man said .
" " i ' m not sure they ' ll come , " cohn said .
" i thought maybe you were .
” “do ladies always have such a hard time having babies ?
the searchlights played on over the weedfield where the girl lay flat against the ground , her chin in the
there wasn’t anybody ever boxed better than jack .
“this dirty whore of a war .
“give me another shot of that , ” he said to the waiter .
jim .
started slipping at the edge and he swooped down , hissing in the crystalline powder snow and seeming to float
, and then there was a motor horn and a customer who demanded green gas .
no idea of retribution or punishment .
look at president coolidge .
manuel , lying on the ground , kicked at the bull ' s muzzle with his slippered feet .
" " oh , i don ' t know .
" " there are lots of those on this side of the river .
” when she goes , he thought , i’ll have all i want .
” “i guess you are all right .
her , crossing the line and circling with her on the surface .
wore my coat .
he passed his hands under the cot but it was not there .
they all came just like that .
the revolutionary committee , he told me , would not allow him to go outside the palace grounds .
" " i was stinking in every attack , " nick said .
' what you win in boston you lose in chicago .
none of these rearrangements diminishes the unity and integrity of “the strange country .
” “i’ll go ahead when we go in , ” wilson said , “with kongoni tracking .
" " then live a long time and take care of yourself , " the old man said .
i can do nearly everything later .
bill was in my room reading the paper .
' ' it is , ' the colonel said , and did not add any of the rough or obscene
“she’ll blow like that for three days , ” bill said .
frankie came over to the table .
george was already started up the road , his skis on his shoulder .
they met girls who were out to marry and the girls helped them along and married them .
bulk almost on him and his rifle almost level with the on-coming head , nose out , and he could
” “no you .
” “it is not worth it .
' as we trailed the buffalo we went very slowly and quietly .
" i offered the guard a cigarette .
it was a hell of a note , all right .
had bought for me to watch them .
“because he’s dead , ” i said .
surely it will uncramp to help my right hand .
he watched the school working the water white and the bird now dropping and dipping into the bait fish that
" " of course it does .
" " we danced at some club .
you could recognize if it was much darker than it was at this hour .
when a trout , feeding on the bottom , took the bait it would run with it , taking line
“i don’t know why i wanted it so much .
” “come on , pancho , the first one said .
out through the front of the tent he watched the glow of the fire , when the night wind blew
but that he had driven many times with andy and david’s mother or the newly finished highway that might go
too .
” “and the one who shot you ?
, and jake was lying under a table .
“what’s the trouble , ” asked my father .
nick did not understand this but he was proud .
the grass was green and smooth , short as a meadow that has been mown and is newly grown ,
" when i go out there i want to be able to call my shots on the bull .
medium-brown is a plump , compact , succulent hopper that i can recommend as far as one may well recommend
" he pointed to the rod-case .
” the nigger gets his ball of twine he used for tying baits and his dark glasses , puts on
front of the fire .
but this is the best .
if i was practical i’d never have come to bimini .
” “i know what night it is .
belmonte had sent his formal cape over to some friends .
' the concierge and the second waiter were holding it and looking at it around the edges .
“he’s an awfully nice man .
” the game broke up and they all started to shoot questions at him .
” later when he started to operate uncle george and three indian men held the woman still .
they had butchered a cow at the embassy that day and the porter had called up at the hotel florida
" the girl asked .
that afternoon john collins showed up out at the farm .
” “it was touched a very little .
but most of the boats were silent except for the dip of the oars .
you forgive this will you , daughter ?
it was very good but the chipped ice melted fast .
all the good ones are promoted .
" we had another absinthe .
the bed of the stream was marly and between the ruts of deep water green weed fronds swung in the
it looked like a photograph when i unwrapped it and i unrolled it thinking it was maybe a picture someone
” the doctor’s assistant put the cone over manuel’s face and he inhaled deeply .
“we must go , ” i said .
" it is quite normal .
" " anything .
“he’s necessary , ” i said .
' ' at the market .
that ' s a nice safe lead in baseball .
' tell me what it ' s like , mr .
but this sort of thing means something to you , really ?
" " and , " the major looked at him quickly , " that you are not corrupt ?
what’s your last name , marie ?
“you couldn’t have anybody better than me .
if necessary i will make all the promises and i will keep them .
' ' and what happened to him ?
" i saw cohn coming over across the square .
there was an orchestra playing inside the café and i sat out on the terrace and enjoyed the fresh coolness
a number of his stories also have bullfighting themes .
” “oh , what the hell , ” said max .
and where they lived and worked to hold us up .
“four reales .
mangez !
would do .
” the nigger asks me , showing the coins .
the flat sea sent it back at his eyes so that it hurt sharply and he rowed without looking into
" i know you did not leave me because you doubted .
we walked across the gravel under the trees to the hotel .
we found and carried to an improvised mortuary a good number of these and , i must admit , frankly
his horns held high now and i stood to shoot running , got on him , the whole animal miniatured
“you are of the great translators .
the canary from palermo , a cloth spread over his cage , was out of the draft in the corridor
, flocks of sheep and goats and patches of corn and i said to p .
maybe i will get to like it .
not as information .
he thought the dog would stay and he did but when david moved up toward the bulk of the elephant
“now for that great requisite skill in the use of .
" there comes cohn , " i said .
if you go to jail we might as well both go .
you can put it on the table .
you ' re not right .
the guards who had been holding him up both dropped him .
tout le monde est allé dans le truck .
he was at home , too , in all operations that did not involve more than a company and understood
it might do my credit good .
germain .
the waiters didn’t know the different wines .
saving me is fairly innocuous .
” “the doctor .
that ' s been understood .
to the café marinas .
” “and when the chasse is gone ?
” said peduzzi .
the reel ratcheted into a mechanical shriek as the line went out in a rush .
" william campbell shut his eyes and took a deep breath .
his sister was watching and she had her hands folded across her knees and he watched her unclasp her hands
' ' thank you , andrea .
” it had moved up on him now , but it had no shape any more .
” “i’ll ask them .
' mine ' ll hold me .
” “do you want to take the bath ?
” “all right , ” he said because he knew this was the start of the never telling that he
" " he knew everything when he started .
patrons of the arts and letters have discovered the forum , he read .
she was grown up and there was not much chance of their changing now .
" that makes nine of them , " joe said , " just between here and the edge of town
he stood there , moistening his lips , and listened while someone tried the back door .
the pillars of the arcade .
' ' i ' m going to give up smoking for six months for you to get one , '
while they looked out over the lake .
“hundred’s about right .
“make me happier than nothing .
back to the hotel .
but i am too tired to say them now .
" " sit down , " i said .
but you know , no kidding , it was something to see .
' ' please walk slowly .
i do not suppose i thought of all those things because i have never thought much and never in words
they passed the long line of boats in the slow canal that carried water from the brenta , and he
i was a son of a bitch to have gut-shot him .
” “twelve years old if i see you are careful .
" i looked across at the table .
" " he ' s all right .
" don ' t bother to talk with these two .
there is no order for good writers .
you run only one risk—when you load your passengers .
the waiter poured on into the glass so that the brandy slopped over and ran down the stem into the
“you lay quiet now .
' ' i never cry , ' the girl said .
it’s complicated enough i suppose until i simplify it .
johnson ' s table .
“i don’t like to leave things behind .
" thank you a thousand times .
he’d tell me about when he was a boy in kentucky and going coon hunting , and the old days
" it ' s very bad for him .
" how are you on the weight , jack ?
" he let the line slip through his fingers while he reached down with his left hand and made fast
" i ' d like to see it , rather " --he was making an effort to pull himself together--
a chaplin comedy ?
" if some of you doctors were shot you ' d be different .
we took turns hunting the hills and the flats and karl became steadily gloomier although he killed a very fine
" " oh , " i said , " i like to do a lot of things .
and my old man would kid with them .
“it was really just an unfortunate misunderstanding .
then i had creditors , too .
play tennis , there was plenty of work to do , i went often to the races , dined with
his nerves had become tricky and he disliked seeing people while he was in this condition .
well , after this shooting , i did not blame him .
rails .
after a while the fish stopped beating at the wire and started circling slowly again .
“and it digs under the bank and it digs down .
" " i ' ve seen you plenty .
" " anything you want me to do ?
” “oc-toe-pus .
" don ' t get sore .
shoes off under the table and put both her bare feet on roger’s .
' ' we lead too nomadic a life for good glass .
odgar looking at her .
nothing more came .
dostoevski was made by being sent to siberia .
“listen , does tea keep you awake ?
and you love me so much and i take such good care of you that you get an epoch of
i have to go .
" john said to him .
and don’t get killed .
the monos , in their red shirts , running out to drag the picador clear .
if a four-letter man marries a five-letter woman , he was thinking , what number of letters would their children
i ' ll pic for you and if you don ' t go big to-morrow night , you ' ll
along without him and how terrible it was missing him at night .
the prisoner saw him looking and stood still .
" glad to see you , " jack says .
but i don’t want anybody but you .
_num_ d soldier—listen , i seen a lot of them—here and plenty of other places .
most of our own lovely beauties come from soda counters , and they do not know their grandfather ' s
" " i should send you to battalion headquarters .
“everybody in the town saw us going through with these rods .
” “why not shoot from where i am ?
" " i ' m not going to be that way .
don’t bother .
nick sat between the two boys .
do stay and have a drink .
" he and i , " indicating the one who did not drink .
i am .
he’d stop by the side of the road when he heard a car coming and their lights would pick him
” “get away from me , ” manuel said .
“what time you want to go into town ?
i suppose it is a man who will make his play and then backs it up .
“neither have i , ” nick said .
i have a car in one of the back streets to take you home , elizabeth .
“the first time they let him look through a pair of field glasses he became a general .
" you get your hands well old man .
and the secretary repeating to the other girls , no , you see .
“i’d like to cool you , you rummy fake santa claus .
” “did molo change the dressing ?
remember the whole thing now .
then he went back and down into the cockpit .
and i saw it across the water .
only she was full of water .
he wanted to make it sure i could never go away from him .
that’s no choice , he thought .
” “i did when you were all right .
the banner danced up and down with them as they came down surrounded by the crowd .
' pop arranged two grass stems in his fist .
and into the ring .
” “go ahead .
" no , " said georgette .
the grasshopper was black .
out across the frozen lagoon and the marsh and saw the snow-covered mountains a long way off .
you wouldn ' t like to make up a party and see the night life of vevey ?
because he did not look up to ask if it pleased he did it all for himself inside , and
” the extremaduran asked .
' i asked her , the whisky racing my mind back to wyoming .
she had a momentary feeling of being of supreme importance .
but i had no idea it was something as awful as that .
_ ' ' did you shoot , karl ?
" yes , " and shipped his oars without bumping the boat .
i don’t think anybody fished in here but indians .
juma had looked at david’s father and grinned showing his filed teeth and his father had nodded his head .
” “she has a kind heart , ” said johnny .
engine .
the girl said .
” “i’m certainly glad you’re not a girl who would say ‘on the rocks’” “no , ” she said .
no it doesn’t really .
he was always very disappointed in the way i shot .
his bare , bald head gleamed with sweat and when it ran down in his eyes he would pluck a
“that’s reasonable .
it’s their shauri .
” asked one of the men in the fishing chairs .
” the waitress asked .
and went into the next room , which was the bedroom , and lay down on the bed and put
i wonder if she will like to shoot pheasant .
they knew everything the elephant had done , pointed out the signs of it to each other without speaking ,
this is a clean and pleasant café .
the one porter nodded .
sing was about the smoothest-looking thing i’d ever seen .
“i never saw him before .
' ' i suppose karl is blasting up the sable down there .
we had no time to read comic books , and we had no time for practically nothing , because we
men can talk .
he climbed a fence at the end of the meadow , went down through a ravine , his feet wet
the crowd felt it , even the people from biarritz , even the american ambassador saw it , finally .
the square was empty and there were no people on the streets .
“any kin to the educator ?
the bird looking down from the red willow brush was beautiful , plump , heavy and looked so stupid with
f---- your sister .
filled his flask .
" " well , bung-o , " brett said .
" " that ' s not good for little girls .
we are the intruders and after we are dead we may have ruined it but it will still be there
“very sad .
" my god , isn ' t he beautiful ?
" what ' s the matter , schatz ?
he affected a certain extravagance of speech which seemed to me to be of the utmost elegance .
” “mrs .
" " how big ?
moved steadily away , finally remembering to get his shots forward into the shoulder , and as he fumbled to
" " tell him all about your bull-fighter , " mike said .
' ' only writer i ever met was stewart edward white , ' pop said .
big one with them .
when the fish was at the stern , plunging and cutting from side to side in desperation , the old
the tune was better than most of such tunes , to mr .
“marie .
“i have nothing against him , ” the waiter said .
“and tomorrow you can follow it on the radio in the car .
across the bay they found the other boat beached .
i can play them , if i draw any damn thing at all , he told portrait ; who was
got .
“well , you’re not , ” said the other little man .
“don’t look that way , harold , ” his mother said .
shoot , b ' wana .
but i was in command .
the leading rider saw the fresh blood on the road and then he turned his head and saw the vehicle
“tell it to go away .
” “is he very close ?
" " it ' s a good hand , " brett said .
they ' re fine kids but i want a boy .
he had them packed so badly that four of them were ruined by sea water on the trip back and
” “i’d go like a boy , ” she said .
christ , what a lovely town .
” retana looked at zurito and started for the door .
s amazement , but then we came out on very short grass and rock again and now the trailing was
the wind was still blowing hard and he went to the open windows to check the weather .
ducks .
” “i hate all foreigners , ” he said .
all the seats were full .
" but i guess you have pretty big doings yourself over in london .
' the _gran maestro_ doesn ' t lie .
" " don ' t get drunk , " she said .
the road came out into a clearing .
there was a roller towel on the pantry door and dish towels on a rack over the stove .
' ' to come to your room , of course , and see how you live and how things are
ll pretend that we are oil millionaires .
itself stood deserted in the acres of sawdust that covered the swampy meadow by the shore of the bay .
she doesn ' t care about things .
that was all he took from the elephant except the beginning of the knowledge of loneliness .
" " how ' d you like the bulls ?
" give me a beer , " i said .
it was an excursion that they made from bassano , and we went to the big ossario .
“i didn’t know you .
david could only see his stern and then his father moved ahead and he followed and they came alongside the
in touraine .
it was very hot in the street and the light on the white buildings was sudden and hard on his
we were going on ahead to camp with the chased-by-a-rhino spearman as guide and droop was going to skin out
" cohn interrupted .
" in knowledge , yes .
up in michigan jim gilmore came to hortons bay from canada .
” nick , sitting between the two boys in the dark , felt hollow and happy inside himself to be
but i swear she was nice before she got ambitious .
" " wonderful , " he said .
i left the wheel and went forward and coiled up the bowline and then came back and held her on
a spell should be armed if i ' m to break it .
' ' from anything , ' pop said .
the wanderobo-masai nodded , his mouth open .
it was quite dark now and still raining in the palm trees .
their knee-caps so they would not have to go to the war .
they were still running well and still loose and long but the machine was a cruel pacemaker .
" " you go away ?
used to quote it to myself at one time .
' ' you really like to do this , what you do now , this silliness of kudu ?
" " that ' s the thing to do .
" " would you like a drink of something or a coffee ?
” “yes , that boat .
it is just the thought of giving and then one looks at them and thinks about them when they are
' turn left , ' the colonel said .
' ' i say it because i love you .
good time .
these waiters were all snotty , all over-tipped and they regularly had special dishes such as lobster or chicken that
the trout was feeding .
' ' the thing is that , would you ?
but there was the taste of the brine and the way it made you thirsty .
banderillero again , and two very houseworn-looking prostitutes .
” “assez de sous , ” onèsime said .
" who cares ?
of dust .
“that’s all he want do , ” she said .
, romero had to make the bull consent with his body .
was a bed , a table , one chair , and a place on the dirt floor to cook with
“and hide the four vélos .
" " good , " he said .
are you hungry , idiot brother ?
" " go on .
capabilities .
" no , " said nick .
" i said to one of the blondes .
“there isn’t enough for one , ” said paco .
believed in , loved without criticism , heavy now in stone as an idol should be_) .
there was much material : a field kitchen , it must have come over when things were going well ;
she looked at him quickly .
the thumb .
" " we ' ll be there , " bill said .
three girls and no boy .
the yellow water and the crests , detached by the wind , blew across the road .
the electric light went on in the patio .
' ' your knees bend too .
” al was asleep in the big chair in the room with the light on his face .
what you call this drink ?
we did not lose money on the wine , and the girl was shy but nice about bringing it the
" " no , i don ' t want one .
" we said good-bye to many people and shook hands with many people and went out .
canal where the engine commenced its metallic agony that produced a slight increase in speed .
he can ' t do this forever .
you gave up something and got something else .
then you need a lot of stuff coming up .
radio so that you could hardly hear it .
" don ' t think .
two men got out and came in through the gate .
i dropped the morro out of sight after a while and then the national hotel and finally i could just
developed and transformed it into his famous novella , the old man and the sea .
with his head down he motioned us forward .
' you can ' t beat it .
" " haven ' t you got anything cheaper ?
i wish that we could go there .
then she broke away , suddenly and hard , and looked at him and said , ' i suppose we
he didn ' t say anything .
i was just going to when you shot .
take a comb and a towel .
the old man saw the brown fins coming along the wide trail the fish must make in the water .
raincoats my ass .
you have no cause for anxiety .
that and being angry too .
“what’s in it ?
time ' .
' to-morrow , ' garrick answered without bothering to question the roman .
when jack was on his feet walcott started toward him .
' and now we begin the good part of it again .
the road went up a hill and we got into thick woods , and the road kept on climbing .
“the fucking jackpot , ” red said .
“i was up at henry’s , ” nick said , “and two fellows came in and tied up me and
' from the start , ' kandisky said .
the little man looked at the sergeant and then across at us .
“we’ll drink a bottle together .
" william campbell looked at him .
" i ' ve got a rotten headache .
once there was an american woman sitting with her kid daughter at the next table to us and they were
of the land down until the land flattened and the grass was brown and burned and , away , across
" i don ' t trust that damn interpreter .
he ' s such a good boy and works hard all the time and never run around or make any
watching the stars .
he knows he should not hurry him , that he should leave him alone , that he only upsets him
, very desirable , cool , and neat-looking in her khaki and her boots , her stetson on one side
behind the courtyard and the iron fence , to the boulevard du port royal .
i looked away almost at once .
" " they would not like it .
cut himself a willow stick about four feet long and trimmed it , leaving the bark on .
it was like a course in bull-fighting .
" " might do that .
you want a drink of it ?
gee , i felt proud when my old man was an owner .
“they want to see us in half an hour .
one’s theory had been that meant that at a certain time the pain passed you out automatically .
who ' s michael ?
“i will get wine .
" " i must give him something more than the belly meat then .
i have a wife waiting in bed for me .
' ' oh , i want to give them all a great deal of money , ' p .
of the island .
and that last night , drunk , with joyce and the thing he kept quoting from edgar quinet , '
“all those european countries are the same , ” the man said .
“yes , what ?
i guess it wasn’t so cockeyed methodical .
” “yes , ” said para gently .
after a while i took them in .
what have they stored here ?
, while , at the same time , being a bullfighter .
" i ' m limp as a rag .
' ' good old mama , ' karl said .
we would have got one to-night if it hadn ' t been for your lorry .
for you to take the car out in the evenings .
” “it’s all right about the stories .
“besides how it seems it’s going to be wonderful and then it turns out dull ?
please skip the man .
just knock on the window .
nick knew it was too hot .
fuentes walked a little closer to the bull .
please hear me here .
it was not done in by middle-class real estate developers like chekhov’s cherry orchard , which might have been its
“you amuse me , comrade , ” he said .
his .
" you don ' t mean that .
' ' it would depend on what you lied about .
into the air beside the boat to see where the female was and then went down deep , his lavender
he wanted to do capework with the bulls .
without being taught and disciplined .
she made no noise of crying but they could see that her shoulders were shaking under the rose-colored , sun-proofed
“a brakeman busted me .
i have never had confidence and i am not young .
out across the paddock going to the bar for something cool ; and flicking his boots with his whip ,
” “i’m not hungry .
“and that , ” the extremaduran said to me , nodding toward the battle police .
he turned through the pages and there it was , unchanged and with the same title , in a book
" i want to stop .
" " frightfully good tailor .
then she held herself straight and hard not to cry .
is made the observation .
as they passed him , the colonel tried to see what paper he was reading , but it was folded
" " no , i don ' t want any .
or torn , and it has quite a visible tarlike iridescence .
” the clean softness of the sand made walking a sensual pleasure that could be varied from the dry ,
“if i sleep out here they’ll just think that i’m an idiot and came out here with the blankets and
by their proper names .
" how old are you ?
” “we come by later on , ” she said .
“well , i suppose we got to go eat , ” jack says .
“take a look at the buff , ” wilson said .
just then he felt a sudden banging and jerking on the line he held with his two hands .
this was not as large a dugout as the one where that platoon of the class of _num_ , just
" what the hell ' s he sleeping in the daytime for ?
' ' good day , my colonel .
" " was it really good ?
a mix-up , but paris is all balled up and they never do straighten it out .
we walked along .
these two are worth nothing .
instead he lay there wallowing now in the seas and the old man pulled the skiff up onto him .
it was too steep above for him to have gone over the top of the hill .
finally when the county had gone local option he had bought this store .
nick knocked his clamps loose with one of his ski sticks and kicked off the skis .
this smoke was dropped accurately , and clearly showed the target which was the kraut positions .
” they looked across to where the big white clouds of the eleven o’clock breeze were coming up over the
another got up and ran back , holding his rifle in one hand , his other hand on his head
the garden was sold out .
" well , you ' re the champion now , " jack says to him .
" " one is asked to .
” “where did uncle george go ?
* * * * * manuel stood in the patio de caballos waiting for the charlie chaplins to be over
' ' my , i ' m glad you ' re back , ' she said .
he did not classify them , except at the moment , nor treasure them truly .
thank you very much for the trip and the two drinks and the sandwiches and the unknown beer and the
' after you ' ve waited so long , when you get a shot take it easy .
he went over to his suitcase and got out the cards and the cribbage board .
" " all right , " said george .
right now i’m a better piece than you , you dried up old hot-water bottle .
i ' m sorry , fish .
uzuri_ , mama ' with much feeling in the accenting of the word ' mama ' .
" " i am sorry you are not a member .
, " he said .
on one other subject .
" what ' s in there ?
“it is from red lodge , ” he explained .
" " oh , to hell with him .
wished there was a girl like that , maybe he’d get a girl like that , probably never , there
one was as good as the other , the colonel thought .
in the dining-room , at one side , there was a long table of bicycle-riders , eating with their trainers
' ' the damned wind started to go round in a circle .
maybe it will open with the sun , he thought .
" " heard from mike ?
as he could reach on the heavy bark of the tree .
john said she could have culture until hell wouldn’t hold it just so long as he never had to go
it ' s worth a lot of money to him .
but you didn ' t say anything about it to the cook .
“it’s really an awfully simple operation , jig , ” the man said .
' i don ' t agree .
” she wasn’t crying any more and she was calm .
' don ' t tell the honorable pacciardi , ' the colonel said .
” ad said .
” so , he said to himself , we did well to stop the quarrelling .
i loved it .
” “i’d kill him .
” when she left , wilson was thinking , when she went off to cry , she seemed a hell
i reached for it and grabbed his wrist with the money in his hand , and as he came forward
the general had only failure to show , and they had killed his prisoners .
but he’s pretty big for littless and me .
from where she saw it is only a picture .
' it is just something that i do .
' ' but he iss a very fine one , mr .
' ' commanded the seventh corps when i was there .
perhaps it is a little complicated by claustrophobia .
there were other boats from the other beaches going out to sea and the old man heard the dip and
' i liked it , too .
' there ' s not much water to attract them .
' ' even if you don ' t get an oryx .
marjorie went to the boat and brought a blanket .
” “it’s all right , ” bill said .
badly set and was to be rebroken .
my boat where i had her inside of mango key and she was all right only she was full of
" " we ' ve got to keep mike from getting so tight .
why shouldn’t you be sleepy ?
” “you’re awful .
he was sucked under in the whirl by nick’s right leg and came to the surface a little way down
" " work for the good of all .
sing ?
in a war we must all be careful not to hurt each other’s feelings .
want to know .
against the walls of some of the houses there were pear trees , their branches candelabraed against the white walls
isn ' t it so , robert ?
” “i guess they will .
" he twisted free .
zurito .
it was not needed and , in his always renewed plan of being kind , decent and good , he
" he ' s just as gentle .
" he ' ll stay with me too , i suppose , the old man thought and he waited for
' s going to handle him brings the gloves and i pull them on and work them around .
pull the boat , fish .
your old man was one swell guy .
’” “that’s right , ” said nick .
“what’s the sense in spending money sooner than necessary ?
then everything commenced to run faster and faster as when they speed up a cinematograph film .
you get to think like one of those vast-spaces-of-america writers , he said to himself .
“haven’t you ever been there ?
the brush was very thick ahead and the ground was dry .
i hit him four or five times .
nick was glad that it had been that way ; for some one has to give you your first gun
of it was that long yellow house and the different width of the river .
we only knew then that there was always the war , but that we were not going to it any
" " come on back in the shade , " he said .
" " i might just lie down , " nick said .
' _ay hija mia_ , ' the colonel said .
" " all of them .
“it tastes sort of slimy and slippery in a cup .
now i have done what i can , he thought .
" it was .
but they don’t .
” “you mean pretend to ourselves he hasn’t been hit ?
and bit me on the shoulder .
part ii pursuit remembered chapter one it dated back to the time of droopy , after i had come back
it stopped at this junction for two minutes and went on to madrid .
i could only get as far as “on earth as it is in heaven” and then have to start all
” the three of them walked over to where the second buffalo bulked blackly in the open , head forward
" " with water ?
“put on a little drag , ” i said .
_num_ d roman soldier—it take some of them pretty bad .
" he turned away from me .
" he is in much pain .
“in war , it is necessary to have discipline .
i straightened up and let mr .
portrait was a thing of the past .
all sentimental people are betrayed so many times .
i had forty cents , and anyhow the plane was in miami by now .
they were inside sitting at the bar .
he is silent these days .
the dried bed was hard and firm and we drove the car until it commenced to look moist and soft
" " she ' s just a spitfire , " the man said .
john had told nick .
“is a no such thing as a touch meat in a war .
and saying , “you must put it out .
“you came out of it damned well , ” bill said .
“just three , ” wilson said .
you know what you are ?
i feel fine .
" where ' s cohn ?
" the beer came .
ettore , with his emaciated face and his love of joking and fundamental and abiding disrespect , came over and
" c ' est vrai , " fontan said .
and certainly not me .
san fermin is also a religious festival .
' ' how the hell do you see them ?
nobody ever knows how much they got .
nick’s heart tightened as the trout moved .
" bill had gone into the bar .
' damned dangerous .
“you got a week to get around into form .
were they big trout ?
maybe they don’t even remember .
they send us home now , so there will be some left .
' the company makes locomotives in milan , ' the colonel said .
" he did not truly feel good because the pain from the cord across his back had almost passed pain
” he looked straight past me and out through the window .
you know this does utilize well .
i’ll cut one if we fish .
a short white sergeant was with them .
' ' _anch ' io_ .
there were a few people inside at the bar , and outside , alone , sat harvey stone .
the bus was supposed to start from .
wind blew over us on the way home across the plain .
' ' homer , ' said pop .
station in the town i had lived in all my life and it was all new .
” “we are , ” the girl said .
the gravel slid under his shoes .
doumi !
think about prudence and finally he went to sleep .
his weight was on his lower belly and as the bull raised his head the horn was out of sight
” “he was a great fighter , ” the lumberjack said .
” “shut up , ” said onie .
" if you love women you ' ll get a dose , " william campbell said .
it said that if he did not make the payment by the following saturday his mother’s grave would be opened
" " you haven ' t got it yet , " bill said .
out in the evening to animate the populace .
they were shaped like a man ' s fingers when they are crisped like claws .
hernandez shrugged his shoulders .
” but when i came downstairs he was dressed , sitting by the fire , looking a very sick and
" the thousand times that he had proved it meant nothing .
” “many times i do not follow myself with pleasure .
” “speak up , ” she said .
we stayed at that camp two days .
four !
i’ll just run her in and we’ll put our things in .
" i ' d better get to that damned bicycle , " nick said to himself .
i calculated how many days i would be in san sebastian and then wrote out a wire to the office
they ' re very angry about me , he says .
that would be morbid .
their arms furled in their capes , talking , waiting for the signal to march in across the arena .
" brett ' s rather cut up .
poured a little of the whiskey in it .
you love paris , do you not ?
a waiter wearing a blue apron came out with a bucket of water and a cloth , and commenced to
' s not talk about the war , daughter .
manuel looked at them , standing talking in front of his table .
top of the trees , and the grass very green , we walked up on him like a posse ,
demijohns can’t talk .
why don ' t you know when you ' re not wanted ?
the car was to pick us up at the hotel in forty minutes , and we stopped at the café
too steep for us to make a circle .
” johnson said .
the bull hit him in the small of the back .
he started to smile at me , then he saw pedro romero with a big glass of cognac in his
' ' yes , daughter .
“where did you get the shiner ?
a boy and a girl show up .
there were worms underneath .
cohn said he wanted to buy a paper and would walk to the corner with me .
under way , you take that pump-gun and blow them back as fast as they come out .
' some bloke that killed a lion once , ' pop said .
_num_ d roman soldier—you’ll get into trouble doing that some day .
i’m too nervous .
” “i have been here for two weeks and nothing .
her life-work lay in the pelouse , but she kept an eye on the people of the pesage , and
he looked them over as he stood there and he didn’t like either of them .
inside at the bottom was the big trout , alive in the water .
we talked about one thing and another , and i left him to come to the office .
many others into the station .
brown tweed coat some shooter had discarded , trousers heavily patched on the knees and ripped open again , and
her hair , in the light from the hotel door and window , as she stood on the dock by
they were farther away now and they looked more like spain than ever .
' they look all right with the big one this morning , ' i said .
they would both have the same news , so whichever i read first would spoil the other .
he knew he could not live .
he had saluted the president with the same wolf-jawed smile and contemptuous eyes , and handed his sword over the
hand resting on the gunwale .
we decided to find a shady place and lie down and read in the cool ; to have lunch and
" where the hell have you been ?
good , hombre , good .
“everything tastes of licorice .
to break the skin .
“i don’t know where she go .
but was hard and crunched as they chewed it .
the legs himself .
" where is fontan ?
although there are things that say better in english .
then the bull into a lunging charge at the cape manuel spread for him .
she knows .
juma can get wood and have the fire ready .
they ' re not really jews .
, and you’ll like it ?
scythe tall was out as he smashed at that tuna .
” “bonjour , toute le monde , ” i said .
seats of tanks .
" " he says the bulls are all right .
” he felt happy now .
the earth gets tired of being exploited .
drank cold beer that the girl opened .
' ' yes , ' i said .
“my lovely , ” he said .
“i am a good gambler , really i would enjoy being rich .
his shoes squelchy .
get a load of this , conscience old friend , i know how useful and important you are and how
” “does it mean something beastly too ?
we’ve been too busy .
speaking , but it moved in on him so its weight was all upon his chest , and while it
' don ' t be sorry for me .
but they could not help his fear because he was up against an older magic now .
in the car we ' ll drive to where they had the wagon-box fight and i ' ll tell you
to do before the war ?
” george said .
incidentally , daughter , the weapon , not the old pistol , the real pistol , has missed more people
it is dirty .
“it ain’t crooked .
then there was another thing .
cordial .
” “do you want to go back ?
but take them slow .
" " that ' s not ironical .
" " well , " said hogan , " they ' re not such fools .
" f---- yourself , " he said .
the lieutenant kept riding his horse out into the fields and saying to him , “i’m drunk , i tell
my exhilaration died with the stretching out of this plain , the typical poor game country , and it all
each man had his own meat or collection of pieces of meat on sticks stuck around the fire , they
“you want to go out to dinner ?
' ' it is interesting what you say .
" zurito looked at his hands .
how do girls like you and she know so much so damn young and be so beautiful ?
” “sorry , ” said wilson .
" yes , sir .
' but with deep glasses .
things were not so good in spain but it had not really taken shape yet .
and each pass as it reached the summit gave you a sudden ache inside .
but with the fans on and the windows open it was better and when the bellboy had gone out helena
” “i can’t sleep .
' we ' ll offer a reward for the horns .
she wrote this letter , writing it steadily with no necessity to cross out or rewrite anything .
when the sun had risen further the old man realized that the fish was not tiring .
bill had poured out the drinks .
all you need is to write .
there was a mist coming up from the bay .
, if you have good sense , you are careful not to go back because you will meet some military
the octoe-pus is more afraid of you than you afraid of oc-toe-pus .
" " i ' m not looking at you .
" " very good , " i said .
” a way you’ll never be the attack had gone across the field , been held up by machine-gun fire
" go to hell !
house where i was born and my mother and father ' s wedding-cake in a tin box hanging from one
but you had no time to care for wounded , since you knew that the attack was coming immediately ,
" twice more it was the same on the turns .
he could see him with his long nose , picking up the cards and then opening , “sans voir .
splendid .
” asked baldy .
' ' wasn ' t my cardiograph o .
” “but you are the column .
on the board sidewalk that led to the icehouse from the kitchen she stopped and put her hands in her
he was careful not to let the hook bite into his finger .
“sure , ” said manuel .
" be ironical with her .
body was .
you stay up .
“but it is the causa .
could with his body and his legs .
' ' should we hunt her down and hang her to a high tree ?
" no , " he answered , and smiled .
learned it in the bible ?
she was there beside him , wishing to be loved , if he had any love to give .
suspicion that perhaps robert cohn had never been middleweight boxing champion , and that perhaps a horse had stepped on
that makes my eyes ache .
i felt like a fool to be going back into it , but i stood in line with my passport
i should have put these in an envelope and locked them up , he thought .
' ' and nothing prevents you going , ' the boatman , who was an elderly man with a red
then he could not see well , although now he saw as well as ever .
there was a game trail through the grass along the stream and droopy was bent down looking at it .
he ' s decided i don ' t film well .
he’d start the rope whirring till they’d stop dead still and watch him , then give the steers a cluck
“what is it ?
when he and the boy fished together they usually spoke only when it was necessary .
he had died in a trap that he had helped only a little to set , and they had all
' ' i ' ll tell her that you shot very well and that the portrait was in good condition
” “john , ” i said , “i think you’ve got something there .
in the white water at the foot of the dam it was deep .
fuck-all rien .
' yes , ' pretending to understand the english .
same bank , grading up through the trees .
“baseball is a game for louts .
ordered .
“you’re the only friend i got , ” jack says , “the only friend i got .
” “and i’m going to be jolly .
life .
with a man sculling .
' ' guess now , ' she said .
" brett smiled at bill .
marjorie stood up .
she took off her spectacles , wiped them , and put them on again .
" " want to eat on the island ?
we took the seats out of the car to use as a table and benches , and spreading our coats
in the stud-book and everything .
' ' then what are you talking about ?
' ' we ' re sitting on the wrong sides for that .
the room was full of smoke and the game looked just as when we had left it except the ham
he walked upstream through the meadow .
" " that ' s the only thing that bothers us .
the referee looks at john and then he shakes his head .
” “how odd .
“where’d you come from ?
“i’ll take some .
nice , dry , clean minds .
” “bonjour , ” i said .
“let him alone , splayzey , ” he said .
" " that ' s all right .
“that was why we left the continent , you know .
" that ' s an old one , " manuel said .
" pernod is greenish imitation absinthe .
” “all right , ” the major said .
frazer finished .
, offered him the cape .
they were both disgusted .
' ' let ' s forget all the tumbrils and everyone ' s sorrows and buy the small object and
the colonel , feeling himself sweating , although he knew he was protected from the wind by his field jacket
” “he’ll lose it , ” the major said .
" " we left our bags here at the dingo when we got in , and they asked us at
” “how did you see to do it ?
” “you’re a rummy , ” i said .
" " but billy---- " " i no mind billy .
what hand or eye framed that darked symmetry ?
“don’t he ever sweat at all any more ?
then there were the sudden , deep , knifely-cut tracks where they made a spring when the bow twanged and
it was a talent all right but instead of using it , he had traded on it .
i don’t want you to even speak to me .
i only took a couple of drinks .
“not too early .
droopy had left watching them pointed where they had crossed a deep gulch and gone into an open patch of
he slipped his shoulders and head from under the line and began to pull in line steadily and gently .
" we drove into the city and i was driving .
occasionally met another man who had really been a soldier and they talked a few minutes in the dressing room
from now on walcott commenced to land solid .
one else and the fear that they might take the same driver twice .
to take an early plane the husband knocked upon the door to wake him and they each drank a glass
” “listen , ” i said .
i had the wheel and i kept yelling to johnson to keep his drag light and reel fast .
jack started training out at danny hogan ' s health-farm over in jersey .
" we went out .
” “we said we’d do a hundred though , ” the girl said .
" the ticket window went up and the three indians went over to it .
" like that .
citizens , i feel very well .
with the brass all beautifully polished , cut the brown water and seen the small traffic problems .
” “don’t talk .
liz took off her coat and leaned over and covered him with it .
the sand .
the bull had smelled the blood of the dead horse and ripped into the canvas-cover with his horns .
an observation post and as an advantage point to film from .
he ' ll come over .
the bull watched manuel steadily .
' the next day i found that i was all wrong about that country .
' i found raincoat , extra boots , socks , bathrobe , bottle of quinine tablets , citronella , note
' ' you ' re a cow , ' i said .
not always .
' ' i suppose you should be buried on the grappa .
what should i bring ?
” “i have them .
against the fence and stood flattened out against the fence as the last of the crowd and the bulls went
" i waved good-by .
you came back to find out .
" " yes , " he said .
they’d all be worse .
long , yellow house with a low stable and the river much wider than it was and stiller .
” “but we couldn’t be sure till we got way out .
' what is the news of the order ?
i knew i used to see you out at sheepshead .
' ' he ' s poison .
he says the barone alvarito is not there .
will you hold the straws ?
” “no gambler has luck with women .
bartlett commenced to get on his nerves .
he was fat with only a few hairs of mustache like a chinaman .
or i make wonderful fine good resolutions .
the boy turned away with his face blank .
i’ve got a hundred and two .
" " you seem in top-hole shape .
he was feeling better now and so were we all .
keep your hands off of people .
it can come with the smoke-emitting arc of the grenade , or the sharp , cracking drop of the mortar
when they saw that i had aficion , and there was no password , no set questions that could bring
the small things .
” “i came to play the new discs , ” he said .
the horse’s entrails hung down in a blue bunch and swung backward and forward as he began to canter ,
“i have worked all my life .
i slapped the roman on the back and we went through the thumb-pulling again ; me pulling his thumb too
” “i don’t want you to do anything that you don’t want to do—” “nor that isn’t good for me
' the new model , complete with handles .
” “milk please .
john looked at it again and at the over-large bulge the man’s shoulder holster made under his coat .
days like cats that crawl into the coal bin with a bullet in the brain and will not die until
the spanish word corrida means in english the running of bulls--the french translation is course de taureaux .
' ' i love you and i love you and i love you .
i found my room and went inside and undressed and got into bed .
went out together .
“this vehicle .
, the reins in his left hand , the long pic held in his right hand , his broad hat
oh , rather .
the count stood up .
" and we could have all this , " she said .
don ' t just sit there .
he was not there .
the three of them were standing at the left of the horse .
it wasn ' t any good to jump them like that .
she writes me all the time .
out across the plain , where the horse and cattle fair would be , some gypsies had camped under the
i had shot rottenly all week and he had shot beautifully but drawn almost impossible birds and he had bet
' i should learn to read them , ' the barone said .
the only thing which was new to him was the radio .
she was combing it with difficulty and without respect , and , since it was very heavy hair and as
i first saw inversion of the usual sex of the dead after the explosion of a munition factory which had
' ' shoot ?
well , somebody would have to kill his other bull .
, and sung off across the fields , and beyond the fields there were some trees along a watercourse ,
" the lieutenant of artillery stood up and walked toward him .
anyway somebody took it .
" let ' s not say vice , " she said .
day .
” “straight drip .
you started for home on foot and didn’t get there after the bars were closed at seven-thirty , people worried
” we were packing up the cameras and equipment when the steel-hatted authority came in .
you just thought you had learned something about being alone and you really worked at it and you did learn
“claude , i promised them two vélos .
” “let’s go up there , ” i said .
she had been married to francis macomber for eleven years .
then cohn leaned down to shake hands with the bull-fighter fellow .
" " damned biarritz swine , " bill said .
a rim-rock ledge .
he took one down , blew it up , screwed the nozzle tight , and then jumped on it "
surface of the ocean was flat except for the occasional swirls of the current .
next time we will give all venice botulism from _num_ , _num_ feet .
it was still very dark and i could see pop ' s back shadowed against the fire .
his head turned down and as nick raised his rifle slowly , his sister whispered , “no , nickie .
but he had always remembered williamson , that night .
you were probably drunk in the old days anyway .
” “good , ” said frankie and patted me on the back .
into the tight of the big shoulder muscles as the bull missed him .
by the time they’d gone five rounds he hated jack’s guts .
in the bright may morning the grave-filling looked unreal .
jim had his arm around her and every little way they stopped and pressed against each other and jim kissed
' ' oh you ' ll get over that , ' the colonel assured him .
then it would break as sharply as a pane of glass , but the boat made little forward progress .
propped it up at an angle with a small slab .
' and what the hell difference does it make ?
the jumps only and he could afford to carry plenty of weight then .
" " nothing .
” “oc-toe-pus , ” said john .
“just that .
other subject .
' they hear him , ' pop said .
air passage .
it was no feat for a man with a bad right hand .
holding the rod in his right hand he let out line against the pull of the grasshopper in the current
dragging up to it .
seeing its idiocy , seeing how it really was , simply get back and walk away from it as the
” “shut up , you rummy , ” i said to him .
" " i ' m sorry .
then i turned her and headed her out and let her lay there , just outside , with the engine
how far will you have to go to get people to get those tusks out of here ?
miles and were away from the sea and the bays with their wooden docks and fish packing houses and up
" " i don ' t know anything about it .
the hardest yet .
write of it and for once it would be written by some one who knew what he was writing of
' they ' re marvellous , ' i said , lying .
i have quite a funny face but it is not the face of a russian .
dead bull .
on sunday , i will read all the illustrated papers including the outrageous ones .
i looked carefully at the whole lot .
you dictate the orders or , most often , you give them by telephone .
" " is he out of his head ?
of the plain .
“i’m so hungry .
” “we’ll be out of them pretty soon , ” nick told her .
rafters , and , in the attic , jars of snakes and other specimens that my father had collected as
he smiled at her again and , not smiling , she looked curiously at her husband .
with our chins tight to the ground and dust in our noses , and at the same time made the
in the morning , though , it was gone .
don ' t i , bright boy ?
now the driver would see them and stop or he would go on and hit them .
the sun shone on his face .
i’m ashamed .
' ' the hell with my medicine , ' the colonel said .
“is it all right ?
gunbearers got out .
boy , he said , you certainly are a beat-up , old looking bastard .
the three lines of fortifications made three black lines of people .
bending a razor back over the hand is the only progress the nigger ever made .
” he sat down and wiped his face .
the snake because he had a fine hide and twelve rattles and roger remembered how heavy and thick he was
' ' ayee !
my head started to work .
” she went back into the house to get some beer .
" i know you ' re right .
he ' s so big .
i wished mike would not behave so terribly to cohn , though .
this is where those writers are mistaken who write books called _generals die in bed_ , because this general died
into the lake itself and find the bottom hard and firm and walking knee deep in the water get outside
' ' not too unknown , ' the colonel said .
jack wouldn’t take the foul .
” he leaned his head forward on the table .
" no one was up before noon .
" he said to manuel .
only jolly .
' but i think it ' s better to be catholique if you are .
and i’m tired .
the knives are the horns .
the fact of a woman caring for him and wanting to live with him was not simply a divine miracle
some time along toward daylight i went to sleep .
i’ll get her to give me a small skillet and some salt and pepper and some bacon and some shortening
and you don ' t want to play with me ?
he rolled over and opened his eyes .
good-bye papa .
' i ' d rather get another buff than rhino .
i mean it really .
have it your own way .
first there was the pine needle loam through the hemlock woods behind the cottage where the fallen logs crumbled into
the servants swept the sand smooth .
“i wonder if she’s got any cake .
“seven .
stendhal had seen a war and napoleon taught him to write .
' ' we might be cheerful about us , and about the town .
” “tired !
i had to stop for breath , my heart pounding , and wiped the sweat off my face and cleaned
” “poor helena .
i want to be your common-law wife .
up in the air off the chair as though he was being derricked , and him holding just for a
and pushed them off the quay into the shallow water to drown .
" " please ?
" he put his left foot on the heavy line that the left hand had held and lay back against
it ' s a shame you never knew her before she went to pot .
“george gardner’s a swell jockey , all right , ” he said .
i have thought so , he said to himself .
he looked as broad as a salmon .
" they ' re pretty funny .
“if you ever get so that you don’t feel anything when you see flying fish go out of water or
' ' i like to do it .
he died , hamstringing him and pulling his guts out while he was alive .
mexicans up to see poor cayetano .
' ' me and the wanderobo-masai buffalo , ' i said .
" hello , danny , " morgan says and shakes hands .
i will be able to circulate .
“where are you going now , my son ?
' she kissed him kind , and hard , and desperately , and the colonel could not think about any
she couldn’t wait till she saw jim and it seemed as though everything would be all right when he came
“you have everything .
“i’d say for anything you like , ” he said .
“i go to take the big camera into the back , ” johnny said .
he was built as a sword fish except for his huge jaws which were tight shut now as he swam
i never saw the play .
hand in the head or belly of that half-breed bastard eddie gilby .
don’t do it .
” “right on the flats , ” his father said .
or whatever that language should be called we all speak , the colonel thought .
” “except the wife , ” i said .
very , very nice .
“i’m going to give you a couple more in a little while , ” i told him .
there was a kudu bull on the lick when we approached through the trees and he gave a loud bark
' he ' s dead , ' said m ' cola .
" do you want to know something , jake ?
basque and navarrais dancers and singers , and afterward the val carlos dancers in their costumes danced down the street
and the morning breeze blew them toward the camp and the plane circled twice more , low this time ,
he could never remember just when it was decided that they were to be married .
he had cut his foot very badly with an ax three days before .
that’s when we first used it for that .
” “i’m glad we’re going through it fast .
some other places were not so good but maybe we were not so good when we were in them .
i don ' t like cohn , god knows , and i think it was a silly trick for him
except that the two priests had finished their devotions and were preparing for sleep , and the gray-haired picador had
” “quinine .
the street was solid with dancers , all men .
" that always helps a lot , don ' t it ?
the bow and felt the strength of the great fish through the line he held across his shoulders moving steadily
the organization is organized .
" " i ' d do anything for you .
" " she ' d never seen it .
then it started out and the old man knelt down and let it go grudgingly back into the dark water
“we thought you would come last night , ” madame fontan said .
“your damned money was my armour .
" " of course i am .
i ' ve got to go .
" he went in and the conductor swung up and the train went out .
a little while after they were gone a steward went through announcing the first service , and pilgrims , with
and then i found out about it .
over and over , and shot them out on the floor with a snap .
he never heard it without thinking of his huge hands .
" no , you won ' t , " i said .
there was romance .
there was applause .
dog goes through in water in cold weather .
also through brutality .
“we drink that other people think we fascists , eh ?
we took him as gently as we could and laid him down as comfortable as we could and i took
boats , lieutenant-colonel of infantry without knowing how to command a company , nor a platoon properly , the great
he bowed and did not smile .
bravely and sensibly she faces the problems which come to every girl of eighteen .
” “put it on the bill , ” jack says .
" " damned badly .
' it will be wonderful to see him if i should ever be down-hearted .
brett wrinkled up the corners of her eyes at him .
dearly as a writer , as a man , as a companion and as a proud possession ; it was
do not talk like that .
house where i was born and my mother and father’s wedding-cake in a tin box hanging from one of the
i sat beside brett and explained to brett what it was all about .
kept on writing for months .
" just two .
came away toward the applause , his hand on his hip , his cape on his arm , and the
_ ' ' piga ' was a fine word .
” he went out .
” “i wouldn’t get tired of them , ” littless said .
in the late summer , when the doldrums , following the sun , move north , there are often ,
" i don ' t know where she go .
he went on with his own story .
' he was quiet then and stood by the road .
i felt sure i could remember anybody with a name like aloysius .
he felt the featherings of the sand spouting up from the spring cones at the bottom against his fingers .
noise she made .
” “that would be so nice , ” he said .
nick was happy with his sister and he thought , no matter how this thing comes out we might as
” “i work awfully hard when i work .
i guess i know skunks .
” “what about hitler ?
" hell , " i said , " why go to strasbourg ?
comes with the head out .
“it is a beautiful guet-apens , ” claude said and red asked me what was that .
but it isn ' t any good .
manuel had not seen him before .
he could promise that .
when i saw i was clear i got on one knee , saw the bull through the aperture , marvelling
” “what did they do to him ?
” “why not , ” i said , watching the far bank where now there were no carts .
“please .
in some ways it is an improvement .
i just feel like i’m in a big city .
fifteen came in a bunch to the front and he sorted them by the dates and read them all straight
" so that ' s the way it was in vienna .
, then i love him .
at him at regular intervals to check if he was with them .
greeted the concierge , who was a friend , the assistant manager , who spoke swahili and had been a
“i tell them all you’re my beau .
we stopped in the road and watched the sexton shovelling in the new earth .
but he was rough and harsh-spoken and difficult when he was drinking .
yes , i said .
” “i wouldn’t know , true .
’ ‘no’ said olz .
” “wasn’t his name stanley ketchel ?
there were eight bullet holes through the cockpit splintered wide .
i’ll see you when i’m dressed .
belmonte , in his best days , worked always in the terrain of the bull .
each day .
“you’re nice , odgar , ” kate said .
” “this isn’t simple .
condensed milk in it , and tidied up the camp .
he was wet from the waist down and i knew he must have been wading the stream .
he felt the sword go in all the way .
like you see these selling platers with a shot of dope in them .
manigua thicket is a scrub acacia thornbush from africa , the first seeds of which the creoles say came to
then , too , the roads are better now and there is no dust .
' ' let ' s skip him , ' the colonel said .
the iridescent bubbles were beautiful .
shoulder of mountain that you climbed one foot up to the other , one foot after the other , one
' ' take turns driving .
he held his trousers and his shoes in his hands .
' that ' s fine , ' said karl .
” “i am not sweating , ” red said .
his voice was funny .
' ' let ' s skip the dull part and get to chimney rock and go on to scott '
put it on .
that bloody fluke .
“you’re talking without witnesses except for turd-face evans .
however it leaves a core of certain un-killed characters who know what the score is and no one of these
" " what finally happened ?
farewell , he thought , that is a nice word .
he opened it and drank a little .
" montoya smiled .
“ah , yes , ” the major said .
" " i want to go to south america .
he could see the clear fast water of the stream .
he sure as hell can ' t .
it had been heavily cloudy all day although the sun had come through the clouds in the forenoon for a
there was a choice of three bridges .
the crowd gave him a big hand .
" nothing .
" a bugger is a man who has intercourse with animals .
jack didn ' t make any move , so i gave the boy a quarter .
but fontan , il est crazy pour le vin .
a cloud had come over the sun .
it was still early in the morning but the breeze was rising and the leaves stirred over our heads .
well-inflated dog , the occasional rat , the no-longer-distinguished cat ; all this well shepherded by the boats of the
framed photographs and bull-fight posters .
” “we’ll see what there is in the paper , ” she said .
in the leaves .
” i made him one without saying anything , and then i made myself a real one .
“you know him .
“nickie can have prudence , ” joe garner said .
" woolsey asked .
in the afternoon , after the sun had crossed toward the hills , the trout would be in the cool
” “it seemed very unfair to me , ” margot said , “chasing those big helpless things in a motor
“two krauts on bicycles , ” red said .
the train started and i looked out the open window and tried to see cadillac but you could not see
they were all about the hospital , and how much she loved him and how it was impossible to get
there you are .
well , i think these painters were probably big bambini lovers like all italians .
' crouched , elbows lifting and falling , knees humping , he shuffled around the table , singing .
" spezia is my home and italy is my country .
then it was funny .
paco took a napkin one of the priests had used and standing straight , his heels planted , lowered the
" " to-morrow come the miuras .
“no , ” said the porter who had ordered sportsman .
everybody will know it soon enough .
before dark we followed droopy and two local guides up past the village and in a long climb to the
" i didn ' t have any luck .
" " well , maybe i am .
i went out of the room and turned the door to quietly .
" " fortunate fellow , " mike said .
" " they were damned fine .
and kept mama from shooting things .
i don ' t care what he did to get it .
“chrise , ” nick said , “geezus chrise , ” he said happily .
over the crest of the parallel ridge i heard the mausers’ jerky barking .
or the owners wouldn ' t let the captain chance coming in ; they say he wanted to try ;
this is the most favorable sign i’ve seen .
' m ' cola shouted .
' i _hate_ that theatrical bastard , ' i said .
he was still a hero to his two young sisters .
remember that time i met you in new orleans when i was on a ship and we went in to
i will tell you about the american locust .
" you got to quit , " he said .
garner unlocked the door , went inside , and came out with a lamp in her hand .
” there was a choice to be made soon of two main highways with very little difference in their mileage
' quit worrying .
" " if it ' s not too much trouble .
this last piece of stupidity will be the end of him .
he just knew it wasn ' t rock .
' i only threw it once to the head .
they could shoot too , and they had kept my mouth dry all day .
when the numbers went up in the slots the first one was _num_ and that meant that kircubbin had won
" if the fish decides to stay another night i will need to eat again and the water is low
” “you should see it , ” he said .
“where did you leave the soap ?
” “you’ve asked the right man that question .
can ' t we even pretend some things ?
" " that ' s not bad .
it could be beautiful , though , with mallard drake skins for the back and sprig for the front with
” “for christ’s sake , ” he said , “that’s been my trade .
wait till we ' re gone .
is he interesting too ?
this is home .
the taxi rounded the statue of the inventor of the semaphore engaged in doing same , and turned up the
" " what are rats d ' eau ?
“open up and show them forward , ” i told eddy .
" i ' m through after this fight , " jack says .
the hell there wasn’t !
bring as many of your own pics as you want .
but first you might be saving me and then next you might be saving the world .
i ' ve heard that from one of my colleagues at his hotel .
he ' s here .
' this town makes a living on its own , ' he said to jackson .
there were only a few patients , and they all knew about it .
' please know i love you and that i wish to be delicate and good .
up above we crossed the coruña road .
' oh , ' she said .
' ' take a spot of eno ' s ?
at the table .
" the breeze was fresh now and he sailed on well .
" asked the woman .
we all have malice , you know , of some kind or another in this town .
“oh , well .
but they went through this fiction every day .
" mike asked .
“hogan charged me for the rubbing .
you did not see them again except as sport clothes , odd-looking at a table among the closely packed peasants
there was a bell on a pole by the door to call the people in to meals .
” so , robert wilson thought to himself , she is giving him a ride , isn’t she ?
africa was where he had been happiest in the good time of his life , so he had come out
stop .
” “yes , darling .
every damned thing is your own fault if you ' re any good .
he believed me .
he climbed over the fence and walked around to the front porch .
there was a fine beach there .
i came to tell you that it looks quite good for the shoot .
in san pier d’arena , the industrial suburb outside of genoa , there is a wide street with two car-tracks
the bird went higher in the air and circled again , his wings motionless .
" " that happens to everybody .
you know how crazy they are about bambinis and the less they got to eat the more bambinis they got
“why don’t you get a job and go to work ?
“it’s true , ” said alice in her nice voice .
" this officer made him very nervous .
we let him loose down on the shore of the lake in the dark and he flew out over the
he sat in the chair and read the paper and watched her sleep .
” andré put the twenty-two-calibre rifle back in the cupboard .
they were leaving on the seven o ' clock train for barcelona .
” it was very hot in the train and it was very hot in the lit salon compartment .
just rest and try to get your hands in shape to defend what is left of him .
they were smoking cigars .
” the hired girl asked him .
“all of a sudden it was over , ” nick said .
" how about you , jerry ?
” they talked again and then the innkeeper came over to our table .
” margot said bitterly .
" iss madam eating here ?
while he worked at the papers he put the fingers of his left hand into a saucer of oil and
it was a cow rhino with a calf , and as i lowered the gun she gave a snort ,
" he ' s a fool , " georgette said .
” “what do you say ?
’ my god , no .
she had one of those strong , semi-classical faces and was built like a lion tamer ; and the boy
that was nearly fifteen years ago .
" and those green trousers .
probably they ' ll work down into this stream bed as soon as it ' s hot .
” onèsime called .
you come and eat with us tonight .
steadily , smiling to himself .
on menus for cold meat , “at eleven o’clock this morning .
” “i said why ?
he put on his belt and his harness and put out the big rod with the hardy reel with six
we knelt at one of the long wooden benches .
often i ran out of bait because i would take only ten worms with me in a tobacco tin when
he did not say , but thought , she is over eighty , and she is as gay as a
" i did not see brett again until the night of the _num_ th of june .
the policeman standing by the door looked at me and smiled .
' ' i didn ' t mean it like that .
he lay there while he heard bill come into the clearing walking around through the woods .
in each boat , in the darkness , so you could not see , but only hear him , the
he also told him not to count on it , but that there was a good chance that he could
” “that son of a bitch .
, ” came a shout from the booze boat .
charo , the other gun bearer , was short , very serious and highly religious .
he was very tolerant of people who had not his experience and worldly knowledge .
they were coming both ways up the street .
but if he keeps up that way he’s going to kill his whole insides .
' ' what are we going to do about dinner ?
“you can’t fire me , ” william campbell said from underneath the covers .
“a thousand apiece , ” said the one who spoke good english .
” he looked at nick .
of something .
" you can ' t come in , " he said .
i went on to the end of the car and looked out but it was drafty and cindery and there
” the man drew the coffee and put the pot of milk by it .
” they were going down the stairs now and he felt her close beside him .
i better just give her my love .
" i ' m afraid they expected to meet me at san sebastian , and that ' s why they
' ' that ' s true , ' the colonel said , and pondered that for two seconds .
, staying with me in my unreasonableness .
” “they were excellent .
’ ” and i sat there on that bright cheerful morning , the place smelling clean and newly aired and
must get ahead , i got on him , then well ahead of him , and squeezed off .
where the sand was thin over the clay there was a pool of water and you could see that a
well they sure bought themselves a nice big piece of susser tod at the end .
" " about horses and eagles .
red sticks , fish-hook points out .
very funny , " brett said .
' i learned that word , or those two words from you .
" no , thanks , " said hogan .
" he loves the sun , " the american lady said .
money still had a definite value in hours worked and bushels of grain sold .
once in the night i woke and heard the wind blowing .
but now they were in hurricane months and , when there are no hurricanes , the weather of hurricane months
' don ' t you ever tell him different .
lightness and deftness of so many of the tunes men have gone to die to .
” “did you see him get out the window ?
it is about time something was .
" so long , " jack said .
he very nearly took it from the hall porter ' s hand .
" " what ' s his name ?
he had peritonitis and they thought he could not live .
” “there is one kind of discipline and another kind of discipline , ” the extremaduran said .
she had been married to a man who had never bored her and these people bored her very much .
" some encierro .
“vous savez , il est crazy pour le vin .
“watch that man , ” said the detective .
it is another game and i’ll have to relearn it .
i couldn ' t even be an elder statesman .
” “they were talking about getting him put in the reform school .
there were no side-streets .
” “i could see him better from here if he came .
students went by going up to the law school , or down to the sorbonne .
you cut their heads off .
claws were excellent ; neither too thin , nor too fat .
“i’ve prayed and i’ve done everything and nothing helps .
' it looks lovely , ' the girl said .
' what do you want , my lady ?
" i reached up to help her with them and they fell on me .
i lay down here in front of the door to take it easier .
the sable now were going up the hill at the head of the valley , up the hill at our
" asked frank .
” “how much do i owe him ?
' ' it ' s this damned riding in cars .
” “how did he do it ?
we’ll take good care of each other and have fun .
” “in the morning if you like , ” wilson told him .
" " she ' s very nice .
' ' i don ' t know .
that’s what max beerbohm drinks .
" two , " the boy said .
“i mean you got anything to drink ?
they do not seem worth risking your life for , so maybe he just wanted to have a drink in
“got a stamp , hogan ?
" " one , " the old man said .
i’m awfully difficult .
” helena asked .
and them all getting off in a bunch and then commencing to string out .
he wanted me to say something .
frazer said to the nurse when she came .
” “i have been with girls .
for the country , we came through the difficult going and out into another open-meadow stretch and could see a
' ' i know .
” “ich spreche deutsch , ” she said , and stroked guy’s hair .
“where’s the rifle ?
' ' you know .
zurito said something to manuel .
" " yes , aren ' t they , " nick said .
” “i’ll get littless to take him a note .
been situated in the countryside near milan , italy .
there was nothing more for them to eat .
' ' then as soon as you get your kudu we ' ll move down there too .
and that was funny , thinking of george gardner as a son of a bitch because i’d always liked him
for and i’m not worried .
” “there at that table with the flyers .
the soldier had only one arm .
we had many close shots and would get others with luck and if we could get the sudden fountainings of
“is helen going to have a baby ?
the bull was squared on all four feet to be killed , and romero killed directly below us .
” “no tea .
he kept on swallowing smoothly and regularly .
wemedge , ” nick said .
michael comes in to-night .
' ' i love you , ' the girl said .
” “just the same .
on his way back to the living room he passed a mirror in the dining room and looked in it
just a little piombo .
" this is mine , " said bill .
” finally he felt his anger go out of him and he felt a little sick about it being the
at the station they took him off and the detective took the other prisoner off too .
he wouldn’t move .
" badly ?
" brett , you know .
they had not changed in the fifteen months that he had been away at war ; they must still be
offered him .
“no monkey business .
” “poor russian , ” said cayetano .
“tea , coffee , or milk ?
he jerked the tiller free from the rudder and beat and chopped with it , holding it in both hands
” “ever do any business with him ?
” “i don’t like it , ” said the cook .
" where the hell is cohn ?
” “can i feel ?
a clean , well-lighted café was a very different thing .
up-stairs in the office i read the french morning papers , smoked , and then sat at the typewriter and
” “this is what i like to do , ” said eddy .
that lifted and swung with the tide while the east wind blew a heavy steady sea outside the entrance to
" fontan shook his head .
if they won ' t take a fly i ' ll just flick it around .
the leaders were coiled between the damp flannel pads .
" he says to john .
there was no one to tell he was afraid , nor to be afraid with him , and , lying
six mules , following one after the other , hauling a high-hooded wagon loaded with freight .
" labor _day_ we all went to clear creek , " madame said .
i believe in you and i’ll tell every one in the world that you are the only one that matters
“but now i’m going to get a little sleep .
' we were tough then , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
” the lieutenant of artillery said nothing .
” “i could see it coming , ” hogan said .
we walked on the road between the thick trunks of the old beeches and the sunlight came through the leaves
side , bending down the brush where he fell .
“it isn’t far from london .
i got mixed up .
attic being thrown in the fire , and how they popped in the heat and the fire flamed up from
himself there was no discomfort , and climbed up on the running-board on the left-hand side of the car ,
i ' m tireder than i have ever been , he thought , and now the trade wind is rising
if kerensky had shot a few men things might have been altogether dif erent .
you could see only hills and more hills , and you knew where the sea was .
' he said nothing and looked very angry .
" with a disposition to wonder and adore in like manner , as bishop stanley says , can any branch
“it was a very unsuccessful attack , ” said the other .
” “it’s a long way back from reform school , too .
" brett was smoking .
“this is a fight that would draw a lot more than the garden could hold .
" it ' s nick adams .
and how is your thing going ?
” “i’m awfully glad if it’s true because i want to be good for you .
the kudu complicated the hunting .
he lay still .
great fuss over seeing him .
” the fellows who were with him laughed .
“this is a ridiculous hour .
" do you know frederick j .
therefore they bombed us the same as they had bombed the krauts .
ruined .
' chapter xiv ' please don ' t be bad , ' she said , pulling the blanket over them
he must be very interesting .
' we landed without much opposition .
when they were scared they got excited , and when they got excited they wanted to kill somebody .
i had a second marc after the coffee .
i went down the valley and saw the house where he was supposed to be born .
fishing the creek .
work down to them .
" hello , jake , " he said .
i was stiff from sleeping on the ground .
“you’re sure you wouldn’t like to stay in camp with her yourself and let me go out and hunt the
" " good-by and thanks .
shot high in the air , end-over-ending into the crowd .
i won ' t see you again .
" do you know the american ambassador ?
" " oh , no , sir , " said the waitress .
but , christ what an ugly man .
he came down a hillside covered with stumps into a meadow .
i looked all around the kitchen to remember it and i was awfully fond of it .
“he’ll tear him in two .
“anybody want them ?
he ' s been in a jam , and he ' s asking for you .
but it was conditioned , for the colonel , by his knowing many of the people who lived in the
" let ' s take a drive .
" " just wanted to see you .
with laughing .
' ' we could be married .
” “mais j’ai rudement bien mangé .
there’s streams of people going by and all sorts of guys come up and want to sell you things ,
the other fellow pulled the one who was hit back by the legs to behind the wagon , and i
' give me that small packet that came in my name and is on top of the cash register ,
he’s the meanest bull i ever saw and he just stays there , mean all the time , and hunts
mike ordered a bottle of fundador and glasses for everybody .
of a fold of hill , we had walked into machine-gun fire that we had to crawl out from under
” “in london , ” helena said .
they all seemed to be our great friends and we gave a very successful party with refreshments in the shape
" i think he ' s dead .
why don ' t you keep the cab and go on ?
“now you get him , kid , ” zurito said .
then his head started to become a little unclear and he thought , is he bringing me in or am
" don ' t be sore , " john says .
nick looked at the burned-over stretch of hillside , where he had expected to find the scattered houses of the
then he leaned over the side and washed the flying fish in the water , noting the speed of the
out in contempt , and his face turned yellower , and he moved with greater difficulty as his pain increased
” “let’s get drunk and then go swimming , ” nick said .
he tipped the big five-litre bag up and squeezed it so the wine hissed against the back of his throat
very devout mohammedan gun bearer , charo .
” “i’m not pulling your leg , ” manolita laughed .
“is it good this way ?
so , coming in at noon , up since two hours before daylight , with only three days left ,
" i borrowed a hundred pesetas from montoya to-night .
” “so have we .
" " no , bored .
“he’s got a lot coming to him , ” the negro said .
or maybe does it affect her that way ?
" you won ' t have a chance .
" " i think it ' s the best thing to do .
walcott covered up and jack was swinging wild at walcott’s head .
you never knew , he thought .
“i guess we’d better go in , ” i said .
wonderful ?
they ate the buckwheat cakes with butter and log cabin syrup out of a tin log cabin can .
" you ' re an extraordinarily beautiful girl .
so we knew they had fed on up the meadow valley .
” “you will not , ” nick said .
he stood up and braced himself carefully .
the hop head was rich .
i wonder what he made that lurch for , he thought .
they are like that .
i lay on the beach until i was dry , then went into the bathing-cabin , took off my suit
” “does his roaring carry that far ?
” they went along down the creek .
holding on inside , his right arm through the open window .
give it to me when we have lunch before you go .
schooners by the men who had worked in the mill .
but he probably never cried in his life when he was moved .
writing them i had felt all the emotion i had to feel about those things and i had put it
“yes , ” said peduzzi , “let her follow us .
i went out into the other room and there was robert cohn asleep in the big chair .
tired , sweating , and feeling more sunk than angry now , i got in beside kamau and we headed
anyhow she isn’t going to say anything .
“he’s just as gentle .
all this country he had known when he was a boy .
” “twenty-five lire .
did they want to catch the bull’s eye with the capes after he was fixed and ready ?
that’s what seems to be there .
“like i told you .
” “but i can stay though , can’t i ?
" i suppose you ' re americans , aren ' t you ?
seemed to bear a sort of wrinkled and degenerate resemblance to the classic-featured owner of the shamba ; just as
and i was plenty nervous by the time droopy stopped and shook his head and whispered ' hapana ' .
" he was on the floor with his head enveloped in his arms .
“do you like me with my clothes off , wemedge ?
' i ' m going to have a gimlet .
“adios , ” he said , for he spoke beautiful spanish , being a lion of culture .
we were the only people left in the restaurant .
" " don ' t be angry , " he said .
then he picked up the heavy fish and started up the stream .
daylight .
" " i don ' t think you ought to work any more , " hogan says .
it was a big rich manure pile and very solid and we lay in the grass behind the ditch and
” the door came open and a gang of woodcutters from up the road came in , stamping their boots
nick unhooked him ; heavy sides , good to hold , big undershot jaw , and slipped him , heaving
that , or this new dive , the select .
it floated down towards the logs , then the weight of the line pulled the bait under the surface .
we were giving him the usual sodium pentothal before the shock treatment and i’ve always noticed that boy has an
well , it stopped raining during the night , and the next morning it was a fine , bright ,
i know what fixes up a bad stomach .
” “no , ” said baldy .
we came around to the front of the house and there standing in the doorway was hogan .
the water was a dark blue now , so dark that it was almost purple .
we passed wine-shops with light coming out from their doors onto the black , wet street , and sudden bursts
back , beyond the cape , the brown and blue water joined .
and tried to slug the men carrying him away and yelled for his sword but he fainted .
' ' all right , ' i said .
" you got a week to get around into form .
” he crawled forward , snaking in the grass under the fire of the fifties and pulled the pin from
he ain’t going to last like you and me , jerry .
i kept waiting and waiting until it was late .
she had a nice voice .
' but enough .
war ii and _num_ .
” “don’t you feel all right ?
“he wants the title bad .
i certainly would .
“you can’t just quit at your age and take to pumping yourself full of that stuff just because you got
” the two men in flannels were standing up now watching the booze boat .
quit worrying .
" " wasn ' t his name stanley ketchel ?
hogan ' s .
" listen billy , dear sliding billy , i have a surprise for you .
after he had stopped thinking about the lion , wakened and then slept again , woke suddenly , frightened in
s .
” “i don’t want to take a cure , ” william campbell said .
' ' fifty plus one .
we must all be cut out for what we do , he thought .
i got dressed in all but my shoes and reached under the curtain for them .
i ' m just low , and when i ' m low i talk like a fool .
threw five of us around just as though we were children .
man handed him .
“come on , ” the detective said and the prisoner did not move .
pop and chink were much alike .
" * * * * * they wheeled him in , thin , his skin transparent , his hair black
" how long were you over ?
johnson , ” eddy said , “that’s the rarest occurrence i ever saw in my life .
only too many oc-toe-pus .
but i cannot say them now .
a curve and commencing to climb .
one killed in the first twenty minutes and the other two hit later .
they must have took it inside .
it was a damn dull dinner , and i couldn ' t stick it , so i left .
” “we are of two different kinds , ” the older waiter said .
“go on , ” his voice sounded strange to him .
" to-night , " he said .
“him fight ?
going east or west or south .
at the end he turns to be a little child again , though with his manly force , and fills
manuel looked down at the picador’s enormous hands folding the paper to put away in his pocket .
come back !
now he had to atone for that and recover his respect by writing as well as he could and better
m ' cola was very pleased and droopy was delighted .
“that is a falsehood .
“well , let’s talk about something else .
" sometimes .
now i had wounded him and lost him .
give us some literary anecdotes .
“yeah , ” said al .
" " get away from me , " manuel said .
' he ' ll probably get a fifty-incher .
they do not drink too much .
and on the second , high out and to the left , letting the duck climb far up and to
nun , and the radio fathers and sons after the storm it wasn ' t about anything , something about
but for myself , now , i can make no exceptions .
” nick kicked his skis around as he lay on his back and stood up .
the silk-worms eating .
“we are quite alone here ?
, if it bothers you .
of his knees , the substitute bull-fight critic of el heraldo scribbled : “campagnero , negro , _num_ , came
" we got to keep amused , haven ' t we ?
' ' all right , daughter .
" don ' t you want to be friends ?
from somewhere else , and the next time you walked to it in the dark from sermione .
“dying is just a lot of crap .
“your oil’s o .
hell , i didn’t even have enough money to put in gas .
i sell frogs .
“you whore .
i can ' t remember mr .
gone north through mississippi in the southern edge of the blizzard that was coming down from the north .
drink .
' karl asked .
" that ' s all .
he had to stop and wash his hands .
frazer asked the night nurse .
laughing and trying not to seem winded .
” “somebody will kill mr .
the girl came in and stood by their table .
you ' re my true love .
smith and mrs .
i seen plenty of them .
he put on the reel and threaded the line through the guides .
the war is over and forgotten .
nurses in uniform and in peasant costume walked under the trees with children .
" " how can i stop it ?
no credit kill so many lions .
” blackie was biting onto willie sawyer’s face and he had a good holt and it give way with a
' ' we ' ll operate on that , ' the colonel said .
to-morrow , if i get a good bull , i will try and show it to you .
as we passed the churchyard a burial was just over .
” “i’ll say he had , ” said the other guy , and tore the bunch of tickets in two
i ' ve often wondered why .
he was a good horseshoer and did not look much like a blacksmith even with his leather apron on .
you see , he was so busy all the time that we were living together , writing on this book
plenty of fish now though ; jewfish , the biggest kind .
” he’d say to soldier .
" we crossed the boulevard montparnasse and sat down at a table .
' ' say once more , first , that you love me and make the buttons very tight .
” “they came down to the dock , ” nick said .
hunting this country for quail as his father had taught him , nicholas adams started thinking about his father .
“you keep it clean and wrapped up and it’ll heal by itself .
i don ' t know really why .
, by then , was only getting hailey , became useless .
suddenly the gun-bearer said something in swahili to wilson and ran forward .
” “if i would go off with the two hundred ?
' ' you will , boy .
" what you see out there ?
but remembering how it looked now , i knew this was just another blood bath like the somme .
“he’s gone , ” i told him .
” “just like i am , ” he said .
david had felt the tiredness as soon as they had picked up the trail again .
i never knew he had it down .
“is a good drink hokay .
” he handed nick the cup and smoothed the coat he had placed under the unconscious man’s head .
' ' most of the damned safari books are most awful bloody bores .
" " we don ' t like to hear him in there with the dead .
it only beats forty a minute .
" we were married in the eyes of god and i belong to him right now and always will and
when the shark livers had brought much money , spoke of her as el mar which is masculine .
' ' you never bore me .
it’s simply horrible .
when they fired the first volley he was sitting down in the water with his head on his knees .
“maybe we ought to send her a cable .
“good night , jerry , ” jack says .
he seated himself , asking brett ' s permission without saying anything .
he could see the car ferries lying at the trumbo dock where he would go around to head up for
but because he got thirty thousand pesetas and people had stayed in line all night to buy tickets to see
" " the hell you did , " i said .
" " what do you hear from the states ?
they are lonesome outside of the bottle .
” “you are hateful .
then he walked over to the motor car where the woman sat crying in the corner .
" you hear those damn silk-worms ?
then we started on again , and outside the town the road commenced to mount .
" it ' s steady , " the old man told him .
“who said so ?
you could not crash through the branches .
but she can ' t see us or smell us .
just before it was dark , as they passed a great island of sargasso weed that heaved and swung in
the first time .
that is the only good thing about being me , he considered .
down over his face and he almost choked and we both laughed .
“you’ve got to get dressed , stut , ” he said .
garrick came up and made a couple of brilliant discoveries of blood spots , then sat down under a tree
' ' i don ' t like to look at it much .
" in the american league it is the yankees as i said , " the old man said happily .
but maybe they will win this first one in a hurry , he thought , and i won’t have to
" gradually and then suddenly .
my talking english to him was an acceptable joke .
' it is the aga khan , ' kandisky said .
" now i ' ll let him eat it well .
from the ground floor in order that they might not be stolen .
then i sat with my back against the tree to think and to look down the road .
” “well , ” i said , “tomorrow night it’ll all be over .
' i don ' t know , ' said pop .
to the warm scent of quail .
they were not interested in him .
" " i like him , " i said .
we walked out on the bridge and then took a walk through the town .
the colonel had collected liars all his life , as some men gather postage stamps .
back through the guides .
" " and you ' re all right ?
discharged from the service some few months ago—and went to his mother’s home in helena , arkansas .
risen steadily while he swam .
“not with you .
not contemplate the delicate conformation of its roots , leaves and capsules without admiration .
' ' we can try , ' the colonel said .
you hit the nail on the head there .
” “i don’t want to hit you .
i ' m a pasubio boy , too , if you know what that means .
chapter xi they came in , out of the wind and the cold , through the main entrance of the
president hell !
“what the hell’s the matter ?
asking them to hold mail , but forward all wires for me to san sebastian for six days .
this was brett , that i had felt like crying about .
" " i should like to hear you really talk , my dear .
" we would probably have gone on and discussed the war and agreed that it was in reality a calamity
i rather liked him and evidently she led him quite a life .
kudu close ?
a boy came out and took our bags and we went in to the desk .
the road dipped sharply to a stream and then ran straight up-hill .
sorghum , and , driving easily , his son asleep on the seat by his side , the day '
" because really i don ' t know anything at all .
hills i ' m sure the bastards are down there on the salt .
” “oh , cut it out .
” “i didn’t want her to send it to you , papa .
” i care , david thought .
i looked at the extremaduran .
after they’ve been hunted they get smart .
that’s a marvelous drink you know .
" how one doesn ' t mind the blood .
” “what can we talk about ?
way out of a wet tissue towel , say , and over came the people of the wild , blue
" it ' s a sin against purity .
shirt she wore .
and i look forward to making jokes and to talking of the most cheerful things .
' ' i am industrious .
the others went on ahead of him down to the lake shore where the logs were buried in the sand
the waitress came over .
tout le temps elle stay in the bed and read books .
' no bugs .
eating the portuguese men-of-war with their eyes shut .
nick knew that by the time he was through with breakfast they would be as lively as ever .
” asked the porter who had spoken first .
“you’re a pretty mysterious lot of boys , ” hogan said .
steinfelt , " john said .
” we’d had this bird out three weeks fishing the stream and i hadn’t seen any of his money yet
the young man got down , went to the back of the car and untied the suitcase .
i ordered you to turn left .
' ' i ' ve got a shovel in the truck and we ' ve got chains .
in the morning when i awoke the bicycle-riders and their following cars had been on the road for three hours
legs with his front off hoof dangling and there was my old man laying there on the grass flat out
then he made that wonderful speech : " you , a foreigner , an englishman " (any foreigner was an
not that he was self-conscious .
outside , the fence that led from the last street of the town to the entrance of the bull-ring was
if you had the old bed of the piave then you had the sile to fall back on if the
there was plenty of room now for every one to sit on the seat , and the basque who had
feel this , ' she said and pushed her whole head up under his chin until she forced his head
” “why didn’t you shoot him ?
“yes , sir , ” said eddy .
" " five and you nearly were killed when i brought the fish in too green and he nearly tore
then i would not have pulled down and shot under her the second shot .
others let them drift with the current and sometimes they were at sixty fathoms when the fishermen thought they were
i knew it anyway .
i remembered , after my grandfather died we moved away from that house and to a new house designed and
' ' i meant that i would love to have you with me .
" " what do you mean the nigger ?
the girl brought in a glass dish of raspberry jam .
things kept for the future .
" we just came to say good-by .
' ' he wants someone to tell him exactly what to do and still leave him alone and not rattle
” “no , james , ” he said .
" " neither do i , " said harris , " i don ' t agree with david belasco .
you ' ve got plenty of money .
" but you are your father ' s and your mother ' s and you are in a lucky boat
that is not far above gibraltar .
he had been cruel and unjust in the afternoon .
don ' t let him spoil it , the shooter told himself .
she would be glad to be rid of it , i think .
" he asked me .
they all were tall , their teeth were white and good , and their hair was stained a red brown
but i ' d rather have shot him in there than any damned thing in the world .
what do you want done with the head ?
' good evening , privy councillor , ' he said to the bar-man , who was not a full paid-up
sing probably scrubbed his teeth two or three times a day .
it’s sort of like being a priest .
go down there any more .
wearing overalls and a boy’s shirt .
the priest skipped back onto the scaf olding just before the drop fell .
_num_ d soldier—you’ve been drinking water .
his trousers were soaked with the dew as he walked .
he had been denounced as a japanese sniper .
' karl said .
you’d never get a conviction on that trout business against him .
” bill selected a sandwich from the lunch basket and walked over to have a look at the rods .
i never went out .
, or when they flush they will come pouring at you , some rising steep , some skimming by your
we’ll take the twelve chinks on board and we’ll lock them below forward .
“basilio is gay .
but they fed into the timber .
five or two hundred and five pounds .
” “what did you bring to read ?
but he’s good .
my secretary has been literally swamped , you know how it is mr .
" " no , " said bill .
bill came out and met me in the hall .
" they trotted down the long hill , the wagon jolting .
" do we look silly ?
” “i don’t really care about it , you know .
because it is a lovely restaurant and it is where you live and anyone can look at us that wants
je vais chercher de la bière .
' ' english grappa .
out , coming in a charge , his little pig eyes bloodshot as he looked at them .
it was also cross-indexed so that being consulted on symptoms it gave diagnoses .
they seemed to be all right .
' m ' uzuri .
my hand is only cut a little and the cramp is gone from the other .
” they trotted down the long hill , the wagon jolting .
smoothly feathered , and knocked their heads against the handle of his hunting knife .
he rolled the log over and found several earthworms under it .
“hail fellow well met , ” the porter said to the chef .
he didn’t like it any , though .
" he means he writes a book like a writer .
my old man i guess looking at it , now , my old man was cut out for a fat
at different times .
' ' not for nothing are you the _gran maestro_ , ' the colonel said .
” the nigger went on grumbling like that and he could not keep from taking the bandage off to look
music to break loose and said , come on luis .
there were two flying fish inside .
he can’t stand alcohol .
the time .
it was a little before noon .
" " you were the only friend i had , and i loved brett so .
“your eyes will be all right .
i haven’t been able to stand it all afternoon .
' ' i wish that that was now .
” “no , john , i don’t think so .
” “why don’t you learn ?
" " none of your exalted connections getting divorces ?
wonderful though he is .
that just fixes everything all up , i suppose .
' ' extraordinary , ' pop said .
we had a hell of a time .
" " it sounds like a swell life , " i said .
there were more men with him now and they forced the flit gun man back between two tables on the
” “people who know how to fish catch them .
but let ' s walk slowly .
when you did not come he drank it all up .
" " you don ' t remember anything about a date with me at the crillon ?
wind blew and elliot drank white wine and mrs .
' what did you do then ?
you spend all the money you took with you on suits and then have them spoiled by salt water so
what about staying there to-night !
captain willie threw out his clutch and the boat drifted .
you have a dry heart and i hate you .
nearly lived on the boulevard du temple that time , and i remembered the look of that apartment , how
' ' and you don ' t know what it means ?
but as we went out to reach the edge of the stream we soon saw the plan was no good
one commences and cannot stop .
everything of which he could control the locality he did in front of her all that afternoon .
he knocked the trout’s head sharply against the handle of his hunting knife and laid him against the trunk of
“jim , ” she said , “jim .
i ' m not drunk .
“please , please , mother .
but they always over-reach .
but we come back here , too .
there was all this yelling going on .
” he knelt down , took a handkerchief from his pocket , and spread it over francis macomber’s crew-cropped head
" she stopped again .
the hand holding the drink was shaking .
' ' do we go all the way in this car ?
push of their oars even though he could not see them now the moon was below the hills .
we had worked in the house , concealing ourselves as carefully as rats do because the success of our work
corral to receive them and keep them from fighting , and the bulls tear in at the steers and the
, lovely heavy-maned neck , the white chevron between his eyes and the white of his muzzle and i stooped
he said he felt terrible .
then i thought if i was ruined morally i might as well be useful .
strange that when he did not love her at all and was lying , that he should be able to
' ' what about staying in the blind all day ?
it was overrun with badly administered trees , and not a place that you would live in if you could
they have better beer the further out you get .
he opened the door to the platform .
' i went after the camera .
the feeling is that of being clubbed across the chest and he only felt the first one .
“sure , ” jack says , “he ain’t going to last long .
it seemed like a fine philosophy .
it’s a clear night .
“don’t let me get wet again .
" let ' s go , " said brett .
against the wall of the chicken coop hut .
it is the papers that are of importance .
and pop were sitting in their chairs by the fire and p .
nick had wet the pads at the water cooler on the train up to st .
' thank you for stating it so exactly .
all the same it ' s not cheap .
” “it’s probable .
blind .
” “what do you think of it all now ?
steer .
yes .
” “that awful lust .
he gave a jump and went off very fast .
" yes , " the old man said .
about four o’clock when we’re coming back close in to shore against the stream , it going like a mill
they’ve picked walcott up and they’re working on him .
and sat with about a dozen correspondents , while the foreign-office mouthpiece , a young nouvelle revue française diplomat in
i will run for the doctor .
, passing through a stretch of heavy bush , we came to the edge of a plain , still misty
he raked out stone axes and stone skinning knives and tools for making arrow-heads and pieces of pottery and many
' ' the french , themselves , had taken it four days before .
' ' plenty of time for him later .
it means you do not comb your hair enough .
looking at the amount of fat on each carcass in the butcher section , as though he were enjoying the
' what ' s he say ?
amiens , up country and that sort of thing , but he didn’t seem to get any engagement .
he had been on twice before in nocturnals and was beginning to get a following in madrid .
he would not argue with a guest at table .
” “yes , i remember her and the crew coming ashore in her boats and coming up the path from
" thank you , sir , " said the waitress .
qu’es-ce que il faut faire maintenant ?
the stream went back in under the leaves .
” “it’s that damned roaring , ” he said .
the back .
tongue of foliage along a dry water course that cut the open swale , macomber felt his heart pounding and
” “give hug a lug .
' ' well , let ' s just walk then .
' i ' m sure i missed him , ' p .
his table was beside ours , almost touching .
was going to take care of the boat in his boat house .
burnham ' s up at the rest centre at cortina .
“get the hell out of here , ” said one of the niggers who was playing cards .
stop it , ” the woman cried .
the bat .
” “i suppose we could have gone .
you got a better sizzling steak at the index .
" " rotten .
he shoved the wine-bag up .
i always thought it would be better for one to trail slowly and the other cast ahead but this was
perfect cross ventilation .
let ' s not talk about it .
but he crowded the current a little so that he was still fishing correctly though faster than he would have
” “of course not .
" " where was she ?
” “i was jealous of dave’s and tom’s mother , ” helena said .
here comes the memsahib .
christ , i am opposed to the excessive butcher bill , he thought .
lake out beyond the point from the breeze blowing from charlevoix and lake michigan .
like all southern women mrs .
" _you_ don ' t have to laugh , " max said to him .
then , too , they had found not a leopard but a marvellous lion , a huge , black-maned lion
a steep sandy road ran down the hill to the bay through the timber .
when we cleaned it up we found they had good observation for their mortars there too .
i looked out of the open window at the white road .
the young man handed in a parcel through the window .
maybe they’d lost the rudder though .
" stand a little further along the bar .
he wondered how long they would stay that way .
' i ' d know where i hit him anyway .
' bloody well yes .
i stepped back from the tracks and looked back at the lake with the two grocery stores and the boat
' ' it ' s gone the way the mist is burned off the hollows in broken ground when the
" back to the hotel , " jack says .
what you said was that you should remember her mother as you would remember and so forth .
he spoke to me at some length , and i called to pop .
so that you could feel what it was doing to your head , cooking it to hell , trailing in
we were set up for a simple job of assassination astride an escape route .
the poor sole exists , in shallow water , to feed man .
defensive and never apparent , there was this same embarrassed putting the hand on the shoulder , or a "
” no , he thought .
in the dust of the hole until it was too dark to see the front sight on my rifle ;
they would fly .
much taxes the man had escaped to buy that sleek girl in her long mink coat and the convertible he
" i ' ll rest on the next turn as he goes out , " he said .
” “listen !
fought .
laundry’s the biggest item .
” “it’s wonderful walking .
down into them as you stood on one of the balconies .
' he pointed .
” the boy nodded and put up his gun .
reveal , please , my colonel .
everything that is here must be moved tonight .
i withdraw the doubt .
" i am not going to listen to that sort of rot from you , michael .
” “i’m so sorry .
hold up , legs .
the birds no longer waited on the ground .
if they had hard-boiled eggs here we wouldn ' t have to go all the way down to the island
we turned up the side road to fontan’s , stopped the car outside the house , and went in .
the great gaby , and my name ' s harry pilcer , too , we used to step out of
then you have to open up the roads by taking other towns and villages .
“go get some wine , fontan .
' please don ' t pretend to be stupid and please let ' s not think of anything , or
” “they got a cure for that , ” “sliding billy” turner said .
get up and we’ll go out and wait for the ambulance .
” i said : “yes , football .
” “it doesn’t mean that , ” i said .
he wanted me to grow my hair out .
a loyalist uniform , talking to three young loyalist flyers of the last crop that had been trained in france
" " which champagne would you prefer , sir ?
" he was sore all day .
” “you feel quieter now ?
i just asked you how long you’ve been stewed , billy .
” “where do we go then ?
” “who are they visiting ?
_ _num_ d soldier_--the part i don ' t like is the nailing them on .
" " did you have a good time ?
he chugged down the channel toward where the other boat lay against the mangroves .
“but it will go better , ” he said .
" " all right , " i shouted .
“it’s mine that’s red today .
” “i’m not that all right , ” i said .
still had that evil habit and now it had caught up with me .
” the warden said , still holding the dipper .
“where does he live ?
” “i’m dead , ” she said .
' ' do you have any fresh asparagus ?
to do .
“will you bring me the water in the bucket , mister adams , ” he said .
drove a short knife into the bull ' s neck at the base of the horns .
no man who works nights can hold a woman if the woman is worth anything .
“not much choice , ” said wilson .
they said , “will you have a look at her , sir ?
every time he gets in close , jack ties him up , then gets one hand loose and uppercuts him
khan , you know .
“you can come back next year ?
” that was about five o’clock on the day before .
' the colonel thought , i order you to say it .
" lift it up .
then he comes home and she feeds him nothing .
i wonder how he’d kill himself .
robert wilson , ” she said .
his line was strong and made for heavy fish and he held it against his back until it was so
" " you will be , soon enough .
now , of course , and goes with very many women to hide what he is , painted my portrait
i wanted to , then .
" " i ' m a little nervy about it , " brett said .
the property sailor sat with his head in his hands .
wilson ?
“you know more about wine than i do .
“i should have gotten some kek for him , ” madame fontan said .
" " say , jack , " i said , " didn ' t you used to play the ponies
it was a good story but there were still too many people alive for him to write it .
" he held the bottle , looking at it .
“i’d like to see the world series , ” nick said .
fluted , efficient ugliness of the thompson muzzles .
“it’s lovely , ” the girl said .
” “oh , for chrisake , ” the sergeant said .
everything was fresh and cool and damp in the early morning .
nick fought him against the current , letting him thump in the water against the spring of the rod .
he had been taught to cut .
you can’t make me listen .
i’ve seen monsieur at work at the table in the dining room when i’ve brought things up .
the girl wore no head covering and hurried beside him .
the headwaiter sold this out of his private stock which he was holding out either to take home , or
i know , nickie .
pop said .
' ' no , my colonel .
a ring on it into the end of each one and then tow them out into the lake to make
" it ' s gone now , " i said to guy .
there was such a hell of a lot of yelling going on .
the sergeant was sleepy , his eyes would shut and then open , stay open a while and then shut
" you can ' t forgive me ?
" he was all teeth and lips .
” “i told you .
they had been destroyed by our tactical aviation before they ever got up .
" tonani , " the major called .
“nor mine either .
' ' it is such a sad science ; if it is a science , ' the girl said .
the commanding officer does not know where his cavalry is and his cavalry are not completely accurate as to their
" fontan said .
you don ' t understand irony .
he had poured the brandy the waiter had slopped over in the saucer into his glass and drank it while
he’s hunting now .
' ' you ' ll probably get a hell of a one , ' pop said .
you watch me .
he went out from the bathroom into the room , and he was as young as at his first attack
and later there was the good beer at lipp ' s at midnight after mascart-ledoux at the cirque de paris
i drank the coffee and hurried with the other people toward the bull-ring .
“you’re a good boy , pinin .
he has to watch it now to catch it just right , ” she smiled .
” “that’s a new name for it .
he looked very fine , marshal ney in his top-boots , gesturing with his sword among the green new horse-chestnut
him watching nervously .
' ' yes , sir , ' jackson agreed .
he called it dorado .
“he had bad experiences when a boy , ” the smallest one said .
decoys in a hatred that showed in every move he made .
” asked a soldier .
” “you should not say such things , sir .
chapter two i do not remember going to bed nor getting up , only being by the fire in the
you aren’t going to die .
“that’s the first time he’s called her up since he’s out here , ” hogan said .
belly , hard little breasts , well holding arms , quick searching tongue , the flat eyes , the good
" " what do you mean , dangerous ?
ready to be packed , the windows open and the air coming in cool from the mountains , i thought
' ' very good , my colonel .
" is chaves hurt bad ?
mama !
skinned out and their flesh cut into strips for salting .
“well , mr .
for the bullet hole .
he rested lightly and without illusion .
' _hapana m ' uzuri .
' ' yes , sir , ' said jackson , ' i ' m glad to know about him .
they must really be rafted up out there , the colonel thought .
” “but why can’t people go down the creek ?
ahead on the next seat the other two were both sleepy .
“how he could touch the guitar .
now , going forward , sure he was in here , i felt the elation , the best elation of
do you have to go ?
“i’ll wait till i bathe …” while it grew dark they drank and just before it was dark and there
that burano is a very over-populated little island where the women make wonderful lace , and the men make bambinis
it was a choice piece he had brought with him wrapped in his toga .
probably it doesn ' t mean a thing .
“what , ” said peduzzi , “i will have minnows , signor .
" and why shouldn ' t you be ?
” captain willie asked .
“we’ll put a stop to that .
“black marlin , ” i said .
" " he ' s a beast .
i hunted around in the shed behind the inn and found a sort of mattock , and went down toward
the giants and the dwarfs were passing .
through .
when the fiesta boiled over and toward the bull-ring we went with the crowd .
" she was a v .
lots of places they sell the beer right away when they make it , and then it gives everybody a
he was thirsty too and he got down on his knees and , being careful not to jerk on the
there was too much wrist in it to learn it quickly ; your wrist tired and the blade seemed to
" " you have it , " i said .
" " beautiful .
" i put a two-franc piece in krum ' s hand .
let me take a shower .
and how do you keep it fresh ?
no matter how silly it is .
“hello , danny , ” john says .
he still could not see .
“thank you .
” “it’s very good ; sit here close .
every one thought it was very funny .
' we went a little higher up the bank where we could look out over the lake of high reeds
' ' please turn your head , ' the colonel said , ' and i will tell you .
" how ' s it go ?
eyes .
i can’t slide .
" " no , hardly anybody .
he backed jack up against the ropes , measured him and then hooked the left very light to the side
“how do you feel , schatz ?
other lives .
fishing kills me exactly as it keeps me alive .
" " that ' s quite possible .
gulf stream and he had gone eighty-four days now without taking a fish .
turf like a deer park and we drove on through shade and patches of sunlight following a faint trail the
he felt the silk of her hair over his arm and their bodies hard and taut and he dropped his
he was a damned fine general , and so was general von behr who commanded the bavarian alpenkorps troops at
there’s nothing wrong with that .
but now in sight of the fires and on into camp .
not really care to know whether these two were married , or what they saw in each other , or
he just made a lucky draw out of the bin .
“they’ve all got goiter , ” said nick .
wilson looked over at her without smiling and now she smiled at him .
he reminded me more of a dead sparrow .
i put a blanket over him but he woke .
the rain .
i had seen by the speedometer that we were only about three miles from the salt and had no desire
she put her hand in nick’s pocket .
no one had ever made him feel he was a jew , and hence any different from anybody else ,
burying your money ?
but i ' m sick of them .
three minutes , against the sand on the bottom , they could float up together , take a breath and
there were pigeons out in the square , and the houses were a yellow , sun-baked color , and i
” “no , french money .
the wanderobo evidently said we were hunting kudu and were in a hurry .
" " happy , hell !
my glasses .
a very long barrel .
, ernest was totally captivated by the prospect and made endless preparations , including inviting a company of friends to
' ' i can never be like that , ' the girl said , sleepily .
' hell of a man with simba .
” “please make the drink and then tell me what happened .
but i have hurt them both badly and neither one can feel very good .
then one of them gets the emptiness for ever .
“it’s too swell to talk about .
the rhino seemed very shy and i knew from wyoming how the shy game will all shift out of a
couple of deep breaths and dove over off the stern with the wrench in my hand and swam down .
my cook has learned to make it very well .
" drop the towel , " freedman said .
” “that’s good , ” trudy said .
” “when ?
trigger .
was through the gate and into the ring with the bulls behind them .
but he ' ll beat you on anything where there ' s luck .
" what part of the states you boys from ?
hubert , however , was writing a great number of poems and cornelia typed them for him .
at the foot of the bed .
they were both males ; long gray-white strips of milt , smooth and clean .
he leaned out of the window and looked up the road .
the attack is wrong and it’s wasteful .
that is sheer nonsense and a useless waste of time .
” “that would be good .
so i bailed her out and pumped her out and there was a moon but plenty of clouds and still
" " everything .
here , at last , was life .
" " yes , mike .
" " it is nothing , " said the doctor .
" it ' s my business and i ' m going to do it .
' ' nothing , i guess .
uncle george looked at his arm .
thinking of one thing , that the shot was perfectly possible , but that i must lead him enough ,
we go to montoya hotel pamplona tuesday , arriving at i don ' t know what hour .
” “what do you mean ?
" " are his eyes that bad ?
" you hear ?
those are the kind of innocent-looking gullies we got into that night coming home .
' ' should we have breakfast at the florian , on the right-hand side of the square ?
i don’t give you any more money so you’ll keep out of trouble .
” “i saw two skunks last night , ” nick said .
had collapsed without a move .
” “it was tough in the slashings , wasn’t it ?
“did you ever see this nacional ii ?
“come on , skip it and let us get upstairs .
“hello you goat .
let ' s go and eat .
" how do you think he likes it out there ?
and a day .
" tell her we have to go , " said guy .
once you had a drink all you had to say was : " well , i ' ve got to
" good-by and good luck .
” “f— yourself , ” said the artillery officer .
across the flat country .
that ' s all right to do .
it was a lovely sound , even though it was bitching us .
hans , that he skied with all that year , had been in the kaiser-jägers and when they went hunting
“you can’t go , ” madame fontan said .
" like to try a real american cigar ?
i must get a good map though .
the engines ran smoothly .
” “where did he go now ?
" i ' m drunk now , " bill said .
“i’m just scared , you know .
i feel like hell tonight .
' the unjust bitter criticizer who speaks badly of everyone .
it’s so soft and dry tracks won’t show and i’ll walk on the side where it’s hard .
' it ' s simply beautiful .
it wouldn ' t be a man .
frazer grew very fond of seattle , washington .
' i was wet through with sweat and i put on my raincoat that m ' cola had been carrying
all the tables were set now , and already several were filled with people eating .
“what’s the matter ?
' the lobster , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
when the spanish civil war broke out in the last week of july _num_ , he was a staunch supporter
s shoulders .
the sun was setting and it was getting too dark to shoot , but we followed the forest around the
at the news-stand frenchmen , returning to paris , bought that day’s french papers .
the bed was far back from the windows , and i sat with the windows open and undressed by the
" " we know damn well where we are , " the man called max said .
but there was something wrong with it .
after a good bull-fight .
there was a board over the spring and i lifted it and , knocking the corks firmly into the bottles
i myself did not want to sleep because i had been living for a long time with the knowledge that
it’s your marsala .
but i thought you might need one .
he ' s in a beautiful mood , the shooter thought .
the doctor chewed the beard on his lower lip and looked at dick boulton .
" not with you .
andré sat reading in the corner .
" mangez du fromage .
the way i thought out would be best to speak to her was to say , “pardon me , but
' ' kiss me again , please .
scribner and design are trademarks of macmillan library reference usa , inc .
what’s the matter with that ?
' ' yes , ' the colonel said , for now he was a colonel again and had relinquished all
one of these was what the young girls today would call a hunk , and marty flirted with him a
really , barnes , you can ' t know .
so that was a bull , eh , well there was a much bigger bull that m ' cola and
it was necessary .
he would be glad to see me back .
" they start now , at ten-thirty .
wasn’t anybody but him that was that way underwater .
” “me either , ” he said .
" the cook said .
” “when the big fish run you’ll see , ” i told him .
thought was a hell of a steeplechase .
' ' they didn ' t do it for that , ' pop said .
he never looked too good early in the morning but he looked plenty bad now .
don ' t be ostentatious .
they’d have to take saragossa right away if they could .
hell .
” “how was it today ?
i could just reach it with the grains pole and i tried to break it with that but i couldn
“that’s all right , ” manuel said .
“the car knows about us already , ” she said as they came in the cabin .
" " yes , " mr .
' ' it ' s damned strange how you can love a country , ' pop said .
" il aime les books , " madame fontan said .
" why not ?
' ' you had no remorse ?
that’s cubans for you .
i want you to take them as soon as they leave the trap .
" " are you a sadist , brett ?
he took a step forward .
it was about three inches long and was quite lovely to look at if you liked that sort of thing
do you think i look fourteen years old ?
they left the logs in the woods to rot , they did not even clear away or burn the tops
' ' what is that ?
thanks for having us up in the room .
he hit only meat and the hide was set hard and he barely got the knife in .
a wife , and two children .
she had a beautiful complexion and she was very busy and her kitchen help were there as well .
manuel walked across the sand toward the barrera , while zurito rode out of the ring .
plenty coyotes , though .
“i don’t know how i ever held out for that second fifty , ” the girl said , looking at
the perch swam in the water in the pail .
her .
" " hell , " said john .
" i ' ll go with you and i ' ll stay with you all the time .
boys will skin him out .
he ' s a marvel .
” “we have to get set now fast again .
he climbed into the front with the driver and francis macomber and his wife sat , not speaking , in
have you ever seen arrow wounds ?
on toward the illusion of victory we screened .
books by ernest hemingway the complete short stories the garden of eden dateline : toronto the dangerous summer selected letters
it was getting hot , the sun hot on the back of his neck .
think i ' d make a writer ?
i was sure i could get that one in and jump if i could wait and watch his head come
“advance , rum-dumb copains , and be recognized , ” claude answered .
" " half-pound one ounce .
” “neither do i , ” said johnson .
his face was red .
” “big enough .
bartholomew ' s and how we hunted huguenots that night , and when they trapped me at her house that
" " did you feel all right ?
the man wanted to be paid in dollars and i gave him a dollar and a half .
” “don’t come tomorrow ?
' you can see how easy it is , ' the colonel told the girl .
i told her about things once , and she wrote about them .
train , and after forty minutes and eight tunnels i was at san sebastian .
" it ' s a hell of a thing .
roasting up piles of meat by a log fire beside the trail that came up from the river through the
something like that .
" that ' s what i ' d do .
" " don ' t listen to him .
“there’ve been other violations .
" i ' m going over to the hotel to get the glasses and the wine-skin , " i said
' ' nor bad dreams .
” “sure , they’re horses .
they flew as we came toward them , their wings beating fast , then sailing in long slants , and
you could not get away from the sun .
" how would you like these ?
a woman who does not , etc .
that restaurant he would have to try to find , the non-tourist one .
what i thought was the very best of the lot and as they strung out i made sure of this
, and within ten minutes a six-inch shell had lit on the exact place where i had been and there
“il aime les books , ” madame fontan said .
they ragged him about me at the café , i guess .
' maybe she will take a good look at herself in the mirror sometime and hang herself .
“it’s been a very strange day , ” she said .
they were definitely spooked and i lay out flat on my belly , put my arm through the sling ,
the indian lay with his face toward the wall .
" " the first .
" " absolutely , " said harris .
“this is the first sort of letdown we’ve had .
good thing you didn ' t shoot her .
” “ask him who shot the russian .
' ' should we go up and look at the picture and see if it is of any value ;
had to be done before we could go .
" " well , " i said , " it ' s easy .
it felt warm in the sharp chill of the morning .
“poor daughter , ” he said .
he offered the wine-skin to bill and to me , and when i tipped it up to drink he imitated
the trail was a foot deep in the ground and smoothly worn and we left it where it slanted down
killing is not a feeling that you share and i took a drink of water and told p .
with them was brett .
nick took him by the head and held him while he threaded the slim hook under his chin , down
figure this one out and what you have to do and then stick with that , he told himself .
” “but what good will we be back at camp ?
would , in any way , detach him from other people .
at the hotel where mike was going to stay in saint jean we stopped the car and he got out
we walked around through the arcade to avoid the heat of the square .
" that ' s what you want to do .
i knew a good country when i saw one .
“yes , ” said the manager .
climbed and on its dusty surface i printed , with my finger , in large letters death to johnny and
, looked up at the president ' s box .
and say to fontan , ' hey , sam , sell us a bottle wine , ' or they buy
mountains showing across the plain that barker had flown across the lines to bomb the austrian of icers’ leave train
' ' he had better go into the wind a little first , ' the girl said .
” “where are you going yourself ?
" it ' s his sense of self-preservation .
” “sure !
she was very forceful , and cohn never had a chance of not being taken in hand .
they knew , the two of them , who loved and respected each other , how _poor_ boys who did
_vive la france et les pommes de terre frites .
he began to think about just what he would do .
” “i’m afraid they expected us last night .
“with your permission , ” said the smallest one .
" " you were drunk a little while ago , " i said .
he did not even realize they ended .
poler stood in the stern , with his long oar .
i knew i had one no one could beat and i hoped he had a good one too .
“fine , ” jack says .
“we’ll get some piombo and fish tomorrow .
it ' s just come to me .
“yesterday , at the close of day , before we knew there was to be an attack .
i ought to know better .
we walked on and circled the island .
" " low as hell .
but you mustn’t think about it in front of her because she can feel it because she is your sister
" " i ' m ready now , " the old man said .
you could get your money ' s worth .
" " it ' s quite all right with me , " mike said .
i believe that the valpolicella is better when it is newer .
a driver ; while now whenever or wherever he should die i would feel badly .
” “get him with a rock sometime when he’s going through , ” the man advised .
you did very well to get a double on them .
” “i never eat at the hotel .
" " give me kiss on the face , " said trudy .
' let ' s get the little memsahib and have some breakfast .
earth evenly as a man spreading manure in a garden .
now we come into the good part .
of some of the best of the people .
o’clock that night , if that train still left at five ; the cars were marked paris-rome , and cars
i ain’t never seen you so i don’t know who you are .
they were losing belief in the bull .
“make him cut it out .
have eaten from the russians and with beautiful feathers .
, and the machine was to bend the knee and make it move as in riding a tricycle .
“we cut across country here , ” nick said .
absolutely .
all of them .
to bed and make wonderful love .
' it ' s lovely .
under his shirt he wore a string of blue voodoo beads .
awfully nice of you to ask me .
that covered the weak chin , you never thought about—it was always the eyes .
of her than i did .
it was wonderful .
" " what do you think ?
“an italian , ” the guard repeated to my father .
i went with a boy named billy gilby and his sister trudy .
“the reel cost two hundred and fifty dollars .
this is only a statistic to a journalist .
i looked at it and opened it and shut it .
put yourself here , please .
sex explains it all .
san fermin was translated from one church to another .
sifting through the cloth dirt in the linings of his inside military pockets .
his face was plenty marked up .
there is a man outside , i believe he is a servant of yours , my lady , with quite
" the count reached down and twirled the bottles in the shiny bucket .
” “good business , ” said frankie .
” “we’ll be fine afterward .
' ' i don ' t worry about that .
many of them would have preferred to go to languedoc , montpellier or perpignan if there are universities there .
' complete with handles and with the flag on top .
” manuel said , “toro !
johnson took his hand off the reel spool and it started to whiz and the old marlin turned and went
with the man several times that day , writer , poet , national hero , phraser of the dialectic of
, and said , " here is a paesano who needs money to go home because his mother is very
lacking in respect .
what a pity .
damn if i don’t feel plenty bad right now .
“at the crillon .
i lifted the bathrobe off jack and he leaned on the ropes and flexed his knees a couple of times
in war the dead are usually the male of the human species although this does not hold true with animals
dictionary-ing carefully , i said , ' hunt kudu to-night .
across the sweet fern swale , toward the river .
i simply think he is a british general .
we were all hunters except , possibly , garrick , and the whole thing could be worked out , understood
” “i guess i can get a lift with somebody on the road or coming up the lake .
" what do you think it ' s here for ?
“no hay derecho , ” the waiter said .
poors .
not as a writer .
" " i don ' t believe schmidt is catholique , " madame fontan said .
” “you do , ” she said .
" " kikes , " this broad goes on .
” he repeated his refrain .
and know where to shoot , unless you are unsteady from a run or a climb or fog your glasses
then up and down through orchard-bushed hills , around a slope of forest to the top of the rift wall
“got anything to read ?
i repacked them in ferns .
there was so much to write .
the big man saw he was sweating .
" i ' m sorry , " jack says .
” i thought he must be figuring on taking an awful beating if he doesn’t want to go home afterward
about your going to england ?
“i’ll lean on him , ” zurito said .
need the money back and you have it to pay me .
never have i seen a greater , or more beautiful , or a calmer or more noble thing than you
as they entered the long hallway that led to the big stairs and to the elevator , leaving , on
' i was watching , freezing myself deliberately inside , stopping the excitement as you close a valve , going
” “one time a fellow comes here came to me and said he wanted me to cook them a big
with a flit gun .
in paris .
there was no pot of yellow rice and fish and the boy knew this too .
they don ' t steal .
" have a good walk ?
the scent in their excitement .
i’ll come in when i see them .
there is only the boy to worry , of course .
" he looked at his face carefully in the glass , put a big dab of lather on each cheek-bone
” “no , you won’t .
“he is stupid .
she said nothing and neither did he , and when the great bird had flown far out of the closed
you see i have very much experience in war .
said something to me , i couldn’t hear it and said , “sure .
if you have to go you should .
please stay by me and see me through this .
“he writes for the meridian , mississippi , argus , ” said a flyer .
the basque lying against my legs was tanned the color of saddle-leather .
” “tonani , ” the major said in the same tone of voice , “can you hear me talking ?
" i went in and sat down .
' ' i ' ll try to figure it .
the american girl was very bitter against the authority .
" are you really a bankrupt ?
fuentes twitched the two banderillas and the light on the steel points caught the bull’s eye .
" " i saw it , " she said .
stay here and starve ?
bull ring .
as they drove off wilson saw her standing under the big tree , looking pretty rather than beautiful in her
' ' what is a shamba ?
, just a little of it through the pain that was always with him , it had been discounted and
nobody but kansans ever had anything to do with it ; except maybe us who fought .
" " oh , go and ---- " doctor wilcox said .
“i haven’t got it all figured out yet .
” “i’m going to fix you up good when we get in to the place , ” he told him
at the inquest .
we’ve got the good radio and a fine tape recorder and i’m going to write better than i ever could
thanks .
he knew very well .
” “i’ve got some tanks about eight minutes from here on foot , ” al told him .
“he went on the plane , ” he said .
walcott went down and grabbed himself there and rolled and twisted around .
it is strange to remember how we fought back there along the canal that winter to defend it and we
they opened the door and went out .
' ' they say you should never speak ill of the dead .
' ' if we did that walk every night we could come back in three nights from now and never
i had to fool with the chute plenty to get down on the right side of the river .
“on peut les fusiller ?
” “you’re drunk , ” mr .
” “we can have another , ” roger said .
' no , ' i said .
two slivers of wood into the holes he had punched in the can .
the world was a good place to buy in .
” “anything , ” the girl said .
“who touches a hair—” “run along , ” said the chef .
” the man asked .
the veteran zurito resurrected some of his old stuff with the pike-pole , notably the suerte—” “olé !
sing , “have you no trust in me ?
" what does it cost ?
the gypsy bent back , drew back his arms , the banderillas pointing at the bull .
counted it .
" well , " said bill , " have we got everything ?
i was glad to be down away from snow .
in it and a hole in front you couldn’t put your little finger in and a hole in back you
” “i think so , ” said harris .
no , i don ' t want just to be encouraged .
when they stopped to fill the water bottles at a stream his father said , “just last the day out
for christ sake shoot me .
“you would be much more distinguished in civilian clothes .
" you ' ll sleep all right , " i said .
whether a bite from a chinaman was poisonous and listened to her running nice and smooth and the water washing
an old man is a nasty thing .
' i ' m sure my hair was never that long over my shoulders .
_wine-seller_--good-night , gentlemen .
into bed .
“if you don’t know what we’re talking about why not keep out of it ?
“we’re all going to have a drink .
but what was possible now ?
' ' i might get you a jeep engine .
you study it sometime and tell me what you think .
' very big cow .
, the strong built ones , the houses _and_ the girls , that resist the snow in winter , trap
you couldn ' t stand it .
but i’ve read about them and i can imagine them .
yes , his head was going down a little .
he was happy about it , showing it to the spectators .
a little later , might have stayed away from there and not gotten into that trouble .
he had a couple of friends with him .
' they were lying now on the bed and the girl said to him , ' don ' t you
that the tsetse fly would leave , and there was hard hunting in the hills , which were steep ,
it was no good .
finally crawling almost to the edge of the ridge .
he ' s a socker .
" he looked at us .
more important than the president , he says .
the lieutenant sat on the floor holding his good hand to his eyes .
it was really only two , but i did not want to explain after i had made the mistake .
he sat down at the table .
" " you know i think that boy ' s got a future .
we’ll have to be careful about the bacon but we won’t need it with the shortening .
” it was a strange country again but at the end he was not lonely and later , waking ,
“it’s come out well .
purple with regular whirlpools .
knew he was in for a fight .
" how about some of that champagne ?
i know six good stories , he thought , and i’m going to write them .
the hawks soon enough .
” “i don’t lie to you .
we were good friends and he loved whisky , and he is now dead .
he admired droopy in the same way we did and being out with him , it made him realize that
and checked track after track .
then , there were draft dodgers , phonies who claimed that they were wounded if a piece of spent metal
they seemed a fitting enough sight in the mountains where one was accustomed to their presence and looked less incongruous
it was nearly dark now and i found pop and p .
' they looked at the man at the third table .
' with your help .
, nick noticed .
i must get the heart .
" " sure , " says jack , " maybe i will .
zurito pulled his hat down low and looked out across the arena at manuel .
wilson , who was ahead , was kneeling shooting , and macomber , as he fired , unhearing his shot
it is only really fun towards the last when the children play .
i didn’t think anything about those people could be good .
” al asked .
" " this is a hot town , " said the other .
of unique value for his writings .
while he noticed these things he did not lose sight of the bull’s feet .
it’s that some of them stay little boys so long , wilson thought .
“i hope you sleep , signor tenente .
” i had all the papers in a bunch that the broker had given me and i paid the bill
he had a string of bells around one of his ankles and beat time with his foot as he played
christ , i did not know he was so big .
“it’s chloral hydrate .
" this next is the last one .
' ' turn your head and raise your chin once for me .
bryan ' s dead .
“shoot him .
i am sure he would and more since he is young and strong .
' ' when you are working around to get up on the high ground and all you would have to
he probably would .
even now , he thought .
” “where i fucking well could , ” his father had said .
" " he ' s a bohemian , " the lad who brought the gloves said .
” “oui , monsieur .
the captain of a liner isn’t used to scudding that way .
the half-track came on very fast and now we could see the faces quite clearly .
" oh , go to hell , " bill said .
that has seen what this city has seen .
“how did you get so important ?
i ' ve got a sort of headache .
" the music stopped and we started toward the table where the count sat .
do not pretend to be stupid .
the daughter came up and wanted to know what we would drink .
men .
but none of these scars were fresh .
” “maybe it was just a bluff .
" the canary shook his feathers and pecked into them .
there isn’t anything more .
" they ' ll change the thirds on us , " manuel said .
nicholas , ” nick said .
the others went on and i let them take my car .
what do we have to lose ?
better let him alone .
after he drank this eddy said , just as though he was happy , “so we’re going to run chinks
or would she ?
as he lay on the floor with two bullets in his abdomen .
" " what are you going to do to him ?
you might have trouble coming back through the plaza de espana .
after a man gets one star , or more , the truth becomes as difficult for him to attain as
out on the turns .
“slow her down , ” i said to eddy .
and making it all right afterwards .
she kept even with him but said , “hi .
' ' oh please let ' s not talk .
he was furious .
the man had no smell of fish blood nor of fish slime on him .
i know it .
five men sentenced to be hanged were in the five top cells .
from his .
' that ' s all the precautions he needs , ' pop said .
“il piove , ” the wife said .
” “i hope you’ll never change it the way lady caroline did .
they were on it and over it and up the bank beyond and the road had turned north .
' now i will drink a full glass .
' but it was like a kick in the stomach .
nous avons chanté , vous savez .
finally pop said , ' it seems there ' s some sort of a salt-lick where they come to lick
this they located from the card of his syndicate which was in his pocket .
the road .
” “it will .
apron pocket and took out a pocketbook .
you ' ll love it .
i want to go with b ' wana !
, which , by then , was only getting hailey , became useless .
" is that all ?
e l f .
i was going to see somebody and see what i could do about making him pay me .
the man who was getting ready to say something spoke to me very low , " must be like getting
the old man went over and sat down beside george gardner that was getting into his pants and said ,
" mademoiselle , " he called again .
“and keep that tyke out of trouble .
i was furious and motioned them all down .
gamer sat close together on the front seat .
m ' cola was with me and the others were loading and following with the car .
the butt is awfully slow , and it misses and if it lands you get blood on your hands when
it sounded as though it might be a timing knock when you went past us .
“sportsman , ” he said .
at one time or another i had probably considered it from most of its various angles , including the one
“i saw them come up in the car .
a smother of snow and slowed into a loss of speed parallel to the hillside and the wire fence .
“i can’t understand a word he says .
the train started with a jerk , and then ran smoothly , going down grade around the edge of the
it would be before we would see the enemy , and listening all the while for the first noises that
another rider who maintains his pace will make up the space that separated them equally at the start .
and i didn’t get the real kick back again ever , even when they posted the numbers upon the board
, salmon and big-sea , about sex in books , many books , too many books , about all court
i forgot to tell you .
” i put down the game-bags and took in the shotgun and brought out a newspaper from the pile in
“why , then , do you not take up the use of grammar ?
' or else very careful talking around robert .
the girl will bring the eating-card .
then i went below and got out the pump-gun and the winchester thirty-thirty that i always had below in the
“oh , you’re a great man , all right , ” he said .
commissary mules loaded with sacks of bread and kegs of wine , and a train of ammunition mules , led
“no , it’s true , true , true , to jesus and mary true .
a man was stencilling completed wine-skins .
he was wearing his formal attire as a head waiter .
“he’s hooked good .
well , we came across the square from the dock to the pearl of san francisco café to get coffee
ahead , and then lifted to a little rise , and off on the left was a hill with an
” “maybe we shouldn’t stay tomorrow then .
sound like this “sifilus”—do you know what i mean—now tell me will it ever be safe for me to live
" just a little , " said brett .
the other two were just ordinary looking whores , peroxide blondes .
that must bother you .
" " i ' ve been away a long time , " harris said .
” “all the time , ” said para .
second duck , then without looking at the result of his shot he raised the gun smoothly , up ,
the gap raised a cloud of dust , and the two men at the ends of a stretcher each raised
" fontan straightened up .
i feel rather set up .
" " send it up to the room , " jack says .
” “when will they get the wounded back ?
droop and m ' cola trailed one on each side , leaving the trail between them , pointing to each
you just look at the pictures without prejudice , and you read the books with as open a mind as
but i know i’d be afraid alone .
" " no , french money .
t he get any letters , what did the guide say kongoni for that time , they did , he
” “she says that italy is her country .
all for fun .
” the mother of a queen when his father died he was only a kid and his manager buried him
the rhino had come in right below where they were and gone on up the valley towards where the forest
what you do to give pleasure to another whom you love is most honourable .
” “how big does he say he is ?
" i should think you ' d love it .
they sunk the ends of their cant-hooks into one of the logs and swung against it to loosen it in
' ' whisky ?
one of the cleanest cities in all europe .
” “oh i know .
” “it ought to be better out in the country than in town .
droopy ' s got blood .
rods .
“isn’t it lovely ?
out on the right now , the boatman was still chopping angrily at the ice and tossing out the wooden
then at the tent they put her down and everyone , very shyly , shook hands , the boys saying
" then go in and take your chance like any man or bird or fish .
i figured that through yesterday morning while you were asleep .
dirt where the strong points had been fortified and the communication trenches dug .
it was very warm and thick .
the butts pulled out about six inches .
" " what do you say ?
“go on to the meeting .
' ' no , please .
" mr .
he was being confidential now and it was giving him pleasure to be able to talk with the understanding that
macomber , looking back , saw his wife , with the rifle by her side , looking at him .
i did not care what it was all about .
” he asked the woman who was sitting by him in a canvas chair , now , in africa .
“come on and have a drink at the café des amateurs now , i said .
he pushed the tiller hard over and turned the boat , coming so close to the edge of the channel
he laid them side by side on the log .
" " only a shower .
“lie loose and really feel it , nickie .
and the next thing all four of them were going out the revolving door in a rush and you heard
twice we had to get down to crawl and the reeds were so thick you could not see two feet
” she looked up at the grouse still in the tree .
it drifted .
' ' please never cut me .
place while the shark tore the meat loose sluggishly and slid down from the fish .
he was wearing a leather coat just like all the rest of us .
' dan was telling them something else .
” “that’s all right , ” i said .
i ' ll say a hundred our fathers and a hundred hail marys .
he is hitting the wire leader with his spear , he thought .
' ' go to hell .
never used .
there was no news .
however , there was nothing in the mail of any interest .
' ' do you think that ' s a tough town , sir ?
" i know your regular pics .
he ' ll be all right .
' ' see that next _campanile_ down there across the plain ?
' later pop said , ' i thought he ' d do well off by himself with no one to
high , walking out of the battle .
he started up the track .
they were out and compie turned his head and grinned and pointed and there , ahead , all he could
” “are you nervous , nickie ?
” “helps what ?
the girl who took our order put her arm around guy’s neck while we were looking at the menu .
you ' ll have to pull harder than this to-morrow .
don ' t think of anything at all .
what was there that you would like to ask ?
false friends .
as nick’s fingers touched him , touched his smooth , cool , underwater feeling he was gone , gone in
it ' s the way i ' m made .
to hell with it .
” “fort meade , ” the waitress said .
the colonel swung sharp to the left at the next corner , seeing what he had to deal with and
" we have our careers , " brett said .
“we only had an hour ashore and it was sunday morning .
" he talked in the same flat voice .
i ' ve told you that before .
like all greeks he wanted to go to america .
' m ' cola said something in a very low voice to garrick who seemed deeply hurt but kept his
the other prisoner’s face was white and he had a bruised bump on the side of his head .
you can ' t blame them hardly .
we were going to the champagne .
" pretty nice , eh ?
have you solids ?
grey before daylight , with a tin cup of hot tea in my hand and my breakfast , on the
then he heard a key turn again in the lock of the front door .
it was pork that wasn ' t cooked !
so he wouldn ' t send me any bills .
i hate surrealism .
” “maybe he was that way once , too , ” nick said .
gray blue hills behind it .
” “i’m not in his kingdom , ” krebs said .
characters who will resent your having fought your way in .
“there is nothing to forgive .
" " c ' est vrai .
there might be a big one around that school , he thought .
” “i knew you were tired .
“i couldn’t get any of our marriage beer , ” she said .
first there was the pine-needle loam through the hemlock woods behind the cottage where the fallen logs crumbled into wood
” the woman asked him now .
through with david .
brother , don’t let anybody tell you there isn’t plenty of water between havana and key west .
we ate the meat and kept the hides and horns .
but you get fed up with horse-dung unless you like the aroma or the taste .
and we’ll do it .
he was a very discouraged-looking old man and after pop and dan had talked with him he went off ,
“i got to get there for supper .
“come on , ” the man took hold of his hand .
this mission might have been ordered and never cancelled .
the edges of the blood on the black-surfaced road .
the pleasant , though dusty , ride through the beautiful lombard countryside also was a compensation for the unpleasantness of
my god , think of it !
that always did the trick .
his vest was ripped where he had not quite cleared the point of the horn .
where will i meet you tonight , nickie ?
coming as slow as men wade , waist deep .
there was one bull in each travelling-box .
it was his tracks by the spring where that nester’s boy was shot that they hung tom for .
pop had let him have it and m ' cola had worn it ever since .
” “how far did you drop before you pulled your rip cord , baldy ?
the woman in the kitchen motioned to the doctor that the water was hot .
" the old man had taught the boy to fish and the boy loved him .
“good .
nick stirred them and mixed them together .
that’s good .
and fired as far forward as he could aim into the galloping , rounded black back , aimed and shot
" god help him to take it .
" " how about the next ?
“hello , george , ” he said .
it is of no importance .
nobody was paying any attention .
" i poured the water directly into it and stirred it instead of letting it drip .
belt , to step clear , leaving the bull facing zurito on the white horse , come up and planted
“i’m through with all that running around .
" he must be very rich , " mr .
but there was no shooting .
, to see him go over backwards , to see him start that frantic circle , to see that electric
the robber birds and the heavy strong ones .
then , too , he’s dead now .
you ought to know , he thought .
” “what kind ?
just this little bit of coke won’t slow me .
knocking your bindings loose , kicking the skis free and leaning them up against the wooden wall of the inn
” the two others had come over and they stood there looking sad .
there was a big channel blown right out through the middle of the beach .
“don’t you worry .
skilfully he slit open the stomach and turned it inside , tripe side , out , emptying the grass in
" will you have another little cup ?
' he asked .
bombs hooked up on a harness under their shoulders with the heavy , calf-hide packs and the bucket helmets .
it was a beautiful late summer day and there were very few more to come that summer .
we touched glasses .
fish ' s side just behind the great chest fin that rose high in the air to the altitude of
at this announcement i saw six men form up just like the line-up of a football team coming out of
a woman came to the door .
" red said they were waiting to tie in behind white .
or is it too early to know ?
" said hogan .
” in a little while the probationer came into the room again .
but he would pick it up again , or have just a trace of it , and he swam fast
after the sun went down he tied it around his neck so that it hung down over his back and
although i am not a member .
inside he was young and lean and tall and hard as when he galloped lion on the plain below wami
there were two letters and some papers .
” “just about like yesterday .
then you ' d know these things .
and then dropped to run again , or to stay where they lay , spotting the hillside as the tanks
don’t you trust me ?
i looked back from the door .
trees were dark along the banks .
she was standing broadside to us with her head turned , looking .
it was hot and bright .
he could not lie as quietly as i could because , perhaps , he had not had as much practice
” the other man leaned forward .
he saw the phosphorescence of the gulf weed in the water as he rowed over the part of the ocean
shots towards the empty sky , and then waving him towards the blind .
“another one ship them before him .
go on and read a book all full of love affairs with the beautiful shiny black princesses .
how what she had done could never matter since he knew he could not cure himself of loving her .
we are not serving anything any more .
after a while i stood up , gripped with my toes on the edge of the raft as it tipped
' he had made a concession , with obliquely , instead of saying , correctly , oblique .
" " what are you called ?
" i regret the absence of the chocolate , the postal-cards and cigarettes , " he said .
or one of your girls .
" let ' s not talk rot , " the man said .
" " perversion , " he said .
i can’t really believe that any one would do a thing of that sort intentionally .
i never even heard of them .
' but it is awfully cold with the windows open .
" " good , " walcott says .
, in a first-rate regiment , and he would no more have seated his colonel in the middle of a
there were a lot of gallegos drinking at the bar and some eating .
a man can ' t get along that don ' t sleep .
“i don’t want to work , ” manuel said .
" fix your eyes on the uniform .
it was very cold .
he ran very quickly out the yielding plank of the springboard , his toes shoved against the end of the
the brown blotches of the benevolent skin cancer the sun brings from its reflection on the tropic sea were on
this takes time .
he was going back to america and he was very certain about marriage and knew it would fix up everything
it was quiet in the harbour though and he sailed up onto the little patch of shingle below the rocks
rifles and two dogs and went on a trip to the pine plains beyond vanderbilt deer hunting .
' he put his right hand in his pocket and felt what was there , first with the tips of
” the bad part and the part that was worse were behind them now .
he wrote a great deal of poetry during the night and in the morning looked very exhausted .
i don ' t like you to call him pop .
i must ask the price .
i love to have people see us , but i don ' t want to see anybody .
" it certainly shows you the power of the catholic church .
" " not really , " brett said .
he went to the bathroom , taking the _herald tribune_ and red smith with him , as well as a
" the lady took my hand .
splayfoot porter ?
hurray for the foreigners !
' as i can do without everything else .
i won’t be able to take the memsahib .
” “we’ll know quicker .
you two young lads ; where are you bound for ?
sent four of the ducks i promised to those i promised them to at the gritti .
' yes , he thought .
to captain paravicini .
seemed frightfully pleased we were going to stay all night .
" will you send her up , please ?
“uncle george , ” the chef said .
i’m not lonely .
he could get others cheaply too .
the sheets anyway .
” nick dropped his wrist .
the smooth roadbed like a causeway went on ahead through the swamp .
” “you can never tell about an englishman , ” i said .
i said to fontan , ' on va être malade !
' what would you like to know , daughter ?
” “let’s go to the car , ” said macomber .
but now the number two trap is about twice as loud as any of the others .
bus ready to start .
" and it doesn ' t make any difference to me whether you believe it or not .
charley simmons , who is just your age , has a good job and is going to be married .
“it hasn’t been shared right .
we drove through saint jean de luz and passed through villages farther down the coast .
' by god , we deserve a drink on this .
you could not tell one from another , he said .
i can’t sleep , jerry .
past i had been giving a sort of garrick performance in picking up the spoor when it was lost and
there ' s nothing to it , ' the colonel explained .
" we got into pamplona late in the afternoon and the bus stopped in front of the hotel montoya .
" " that ' s a flemish name .
i’ve this damned cannon .
the young gentleman took a drink of it and passed it to peduzzi again .
sing and the cuban that sculled were having a job holding their boat from knocking in what little swell there
that it was impossible to hunt and return , all this with gestures , ' hunt to-morrow ' .
“he’s going to be——— .
” he shut his eyes and opened them , moving the eyelashes against the sheet .
they found him anchored , in such suffering and despair that he could no longer move .
' me too , ' you say .
“you might not like them , ” nick said to the boy .
it was still green but he sucked the acid juice from the bite and spat out the pulp .
” “he looks easy to hit , ” i said .
we had one of those quiet meals .
the two men went out through the store and unhitched their light wagon and drove off .
drink some for us when we’re gone .
" " go to hell , mike .
oh , i am so soused .
" darling , don ' t let ' s talk a lot of rot .
" didn ' t jack johnson knock him out though ?
it went in pairs , on bicycles , and moved absolutely silently on the pavements .
peduzzi passed it back again .
" i ' m through with it .
" well , i hope you have lots of luck , " he said .
brett and mike never got up until noon .
“the birds will lie right down in the grass with this , ” nick said .
” and the young indian who had rowed uncle george over laughed at him .
i ' d followed a fine one out of the country missing shot after shot all morning after a series
any girl .
it is not a dirty trade .
the charlotada is over by _num_ .
complete short stories of ernest hemingway scribner _num_ avenue of the americas new york , ny _num_ this book is
he hiked along the road , sweating in the sun , climbing to cross the range of hills that separated
they came from a little place up the coast called caorle .
” “well that pretty well fixes things up , ” roger got up .
he threaded the hopper on the hook and spat on him for good luck .
packard was a handsome woman in a gingham apron .
on the brown walls of the flattened , overlapping leaves of the sturdy fibered guano there was a picture in
' her voice was low and delicate and she spoke english with caution .
no you don’t have to go yet , his conscience said .
you have been warned , he added .
" all i know is that young boys sleep late and hard .
they don’t bother me .
clear .
why should he blame this woman because she kept him well ?
the other said in french , " i don ' t know them personally but i ' ve often heard
' ' ask him how long the horn was .
there were others who wrote like exiled english colonials from an england of which they were never a part to
" i thumbed my nose .
” they were walking down the hill toward the river .
do say something .
“these gentlemen are wanted for murder .
reader the old man and the sea across the river and into the trees for whom the bell tolls the
glass of valpolicella .
how are you , maria ?
i ' m not going to wade a stream in this weather .
' ' but i don ' t want to command , ' the girl said .
side , his bill almost touching the planking of the skiff and started to pass the boat , long ,
we ' ll go in against the wind .
i know some people that might let me be buried on their place .
' ' italian is a lovely language .
those never get smart .
some fell as they ran .
“come on up to the house and we’ll eat , ” zurito said .
i found her and i never got a nickel out of her .
” the cook sat on in his chair .
they moved the cots back out of the rain and covered them with rubber blankets .
’ so i say to him ‘impossible !
” “oh , yes , ” jack says .
' i ' m just telling you how it works .
don’t sweat .
“how is he ?
" " would you mind walking over with me ?
' ' my poor daughter , ' he said .
' ' i do indeed .
grasshopper down on one of the deep channels in the weeds .
' who do you suppose that son of a bitch is at the table beyond them ?
there were guys selling matrimonial papers and girls selling rubber eggs that when you squeezed them a rooster came out
all this will not last , you know .
' the colonel held her close , with her head thrown back and kissed her until there was nothing left
” “kikes , ” this broad goes on .
everybody had gotten out of the train and looked down the tracks and in the edge of the woods .
“i got a lot to do .
' it would be good fun to take porters and a light outfit and hunt on ahead of them down
it is as though i were inferior .
” nick looked on at the moon , coming up over the hills .
that ' s what they kill them for .
his face was sweaty and happy .
no one keeps theirs , nowadays .
but i should not grow too much nor in the wrong directions .
then it had made her angry .
, jackson .
when we found p .
” “sergeant , ” asked the little man , “who did kill this italian ?
' it was .
just met .
' ' i don ' t think so , ' the girl said .
the young man uttered the lowest form of the word “thanks” and looked after us suspiciously as guy started the
“that’s why you like it .
" the shark came in a rush and the old man hit him as he shut his jaws .
but he cleared the harpoon line and let it run slowly through his raw hands and , when he could
then they lost the trail in smoking piles of fresh dung and the flat round prints of a herd of
he was out of shot before i could reload the double-barrelled · _num_ and we had all heard the snorting
il faut le souvienne rappeler .
tell me about it .
“it’s been charming .
he could not see by the slant of the line that the fish was circling .
so they probably were proud of him doing that .
guy .
he laughed .
“she looks enough like him to be his own twin .
" i just started to love this sheet .
“what do you know about steve ?
but it was the depot , ' he said _deposito_ , ' of my old regiment when i was a
a novelty ; and the third was a coward .
‘when i came in the house she was dead across the bed .
_num_ st soldier—oh , he ain’t lucky .
” “how big ?
m ' cola smiled and shook his head at this drinking .
i ' d tell you what gs are , but it would bore you .
" " did you ever meet him ?
don ' t think .
it was cool in the shade , but if you stirred into the sun , or as the sun shifted
i can ' t sleep , jerry .
" some one asked georgette to dance , and i went over to the bar .
" could you not send friends of cayetano to see him ?
” “in love—with a girl ?
then the bull was gone .
" very well , manolin , " the old man said .
" i ' ll stay here with him , " zurito said .
" " it doesn ' t make any difference with me .
hogan said .
” “how will you know when to cut the pass ?
” “are you very brown ?
with duty was involved .
“it can be two bicycle policemen as easily , or be a bird .
” “all eight , i think .
the boulevard montparnasse was deserted .
" there ain ' t no moving-pictures of this .
' i believe you did shoot him , ' i said .
" oh , i keep in touch with them , " hogan said .
" i wouldn ' t say .
the indians had gone outside on the platform .
” “it’s true , ” the other , with the wine cup , said .
i ' m go ing to get a lit tle sleep .
knowing it was all a bloody balls—if he can’t stop crying , break his nose to give him something else
he said something to the sword-handler .
most of them had their hair cut short .
” “you shouldn’t , ” she said .
” “that’s all right , ” he said .
" " december eighteenth , " said the sexton .
" wait a minute , " somebody said .
someone turned the handle inside the door to open it and then i heard something fall against it and hit
his knife was still standing , blade stuck in the log .
everyone could see the second barrel hit him in the air before he hit the ground .
on a camera .
” “no , i can’t .
" you fighting here ?
of the ice jug and putting his hand in the cool depth pulled out a chunk of ice and put
i wonder how the baseball came out in the grand leagues today , he thought .
“i know you wouldn’t mind it .
' you beat-up old bastard , ' he said to the mirror .
“we better have some more beer , ” john said .
" like you like noise , my dear .
cattle , and it rose in the boulder-strewn un-roadliness through a double line of trees and into the hills .
" " cut it out about the sheet .
” “i’ll give them a good show , ” jack said .
' go to the camp of b ' wana m ' kubwa ?
whence they had been pushed to rid the road of their encumbrance .
” said george .
lips and handsome jaw .
” eddy and billy tabeshaw had rocked the log out of the wet sand and rolled it toward the water
make it back to-morrow night if you can .
chipmunks must have carried it away .
" " the month when the great fish come , " the old man said .
i know .
they sprinkled the surface like a handful of shot thrown into the water .
gentlemen , either you must govern—or you must be governed .
why have i never seen a gondola before ?
one time he killed a jack-rabbit and he wanted me to cook it with a sauce with wine , make
' ' she ' s marvellous .
machine-gun fire from the sunken road and from the group of farm houses , encountered no resistance in the town
to me it is the rarest and most interesting thing which i have seen for some time .
' ' i ' ll try .
“if i keep it out straight , pulled out straight , it don’t hurt so bad , ” he said
olz didn ' t say anything .
it was like piano keys .
that old hieronymus bosch really painted .
she was beautiful and he loved to look at her and her feet felt very good on his .
makes me damned nervous .
' you wicked old man .
“molo , ” she called , “molo !
this was a real one .
tables filled with the regular after-dinner crowd .
“she was a fine woman and i felt better already because i knew there was only one thing to do
” “i don’t feel any way , ” the girl said .
a waiter came up as soon as i sat down .
i didn’t offer you anything .
it was really a lunch counter and he sat on a stool and ordered coffee with milk and a fried
i didn’t figure to get shot .
and forth , back and forth , ducking and dodging .
" " how did you know it was them ?
” i wiped it off with the rag .
he sat down at the table with his colleague again .
' now eat , ' he said .
” “do you remember the panorama of the sahara desert ?
" he shipped his oars and brought a small line from under the bow .
d ' antan , oui .
“it is strange and wonderful .
" " seen the paper ?
" do let ' s go and eat , " brett said .
" can one ?
drive the sweat out on his face like water and then sling the rope at the tree and come over
, somewhere else as we had always had the right to go somewhere else and as we had always gone
don’t be a silly girl .
give you lightning joe as a good one .
shooter swung carefully up onto this , feeling the frozen grasses break as he stepped on them .
, plunging , the rod bending alive , out of the danger of the weeds into the open river .
it was still cool from the night and opened by the tin-opener it creamed into three cups , thick-foamed ,
they ' ve been on a pilgrimage to rome , and now they ' re going down to biarritz and
his sister felt them , warm and _num_ ullbreasted and beautifully feathered .
” “you’ll feel better .
is as good as the first .
it was not one siren .
it was quite a bite and i put iodine on it , and then i sat there steering and wondering
' ' can ' t we make trips like that when we come back ?
and now we are having run again , aren ' t we ?
but the old man brought it out from under the bed .
you don’t know how i look forward to tomorrow .
" did you ever smoke opium ?
“i’ll have a gimlet , ” robert wilson told him .
i hate him , myself .
' you getting hungry ?
" " keep your hands off me , " jack says .
she was gone and he had sent her away .
" we rode in a taxi down to the palace hotel , left the bags , arranged for berths on
' ' have a try at it .
_ _num_ st soldier_--she ' s a nice-looker .
" i wish to hell he couldn ' t .
“i pray all night and i pray in the daytime .
she keeps no check on my things .
“this was his askari .
' the colonel and the driver walked over to the venice side of the road and looked across the lagoon
she put all her money into french war bonds .
he was going to stay , and true love would conquer all .
she wore a slipover jersey sweater and a tweed skirt , and her hair was brushed back like a boy
maybe he’s dead .
' cola and i crossed the road , angled behind the village up a dry watercourse and started climbing the
but despair would kill you in just a little time .
i truly do not know .
' he asked the calling duck .
" " he says that he is telling the truth , " the interpreter said .
” “and am poorer than the birds .
that was chink then , quoting robert graves , then .
most of the time .
” “we made a very fine attack .
" he tapped his head .
" " but the train does not come for three quarters of an hour .
pedro romero took off his heavy gold-brocaded cape and handed it over the fence to his sword-handler .
it is no worse for me than for anyone else .
i decided that those people were not naturalists .
bell , " nick said .
“prudence mitchell’s his girl .
one he folded double , next to the ground .
' ' did you take part in it ?
' ' by god , ' said pop , ' it must have been if you can believe the papers
how many days of heavy brisa have we ?
standing at the edge of the smooth rolled sand you could look up in the empty stands and see old
in may of _num_ .
don ' t ever tell any one you made that one .
do you see how clearly you see the men with your glasses ?
the old man had seen many great fish .
let go of me .
“get it yourself .
” “daughter , don’t make up a lot of things .
with the good light , the birds could see the ice and they no longer came in and instead went
" " if you think it won ' t keep me awake .
in those days the snobs among the rich young men of madrid hung out at something called the nuevo club
bill wasn’t there .
i don ' t want any one else .
“you go up to bed , ” i said , “you’re sick .
there ' s plenty that do out where i come from , though .
i wanted to say something pleasant and hearty , instead , ' how many times did you shoot him ?
i could see that kamau was excited and , looking back , m ' cola nodded his head up and
" " some days we took a dozen apiece .
” he said to manuel .
" " i suppose you were in a convent .
“how long do you suppose he and his friend had been together ?
colonel thought she , also , had a pleasant face .
“ayee !
" you said you had fifty grand on walcott , " i said .
' ' you weren ' t , ' the colonel said .
and joined the a .
” his father asked .
' ' daughter , that ' s one of the few things i know how to do .
that’s awfully big to make a story about .
nick put the package of lunch by the base of one of the hemlocks and lay down to wait .
we might hunt a week for a good one .
are you afraid of him ?
the water .
didn ' t giotto describe a circle , he thought ?
we shot two , but then stopped , because the bullets that missed glanced off the rocks and the dirt
basement and burned everything that should not have been there .
' ' i suppose so .
a couple of people i did not know slapped me on the back and when the girl at our table
' m ' cola had the horns down by now and he and kamau were holding them so they could
again .
' ' i know about that .
curb .
the leaves , and the heaviness of the sun over the stream .
then several women had put themselves out to be nice to him , and his horizons had all shifted .
” he smiled , and went on soft-voiced : “right away i liked him and when i got out i
“nice work .
“don’t worry about me talking , ” he said .
” “not so many , harry .
he had been to camp meetings and a revival but he had never been to a chautauqua .
' ' splendid , ' the colonel said .
' ' wanderobo-masai king of guides , ' i said .
, green , basque country , and finally into bayonne .
buy the little negro , or moor , carved in ebony with his fine features and his jewelled turban .
“i will be going , ” said the middle-aged waiter .
i should not be put in a house that is being watched for other reasons .
walcott was sore as hell .
i sent these back wondering what kati had imagined the mincemeat to be .
them fourteen to nothing at the end of the first quarter and that it ' s all right .
the hemlock bark was piled in long rows of stacks , roofed over with more bark , like houses ,
' ' we were in the blind and they motioned me to keep my head down and then when i
' an army can get to be huge ; but you can close up a little bit .
it was all so slow and so controlled .
that hurled the logs against the revolving , circular saws and all the rollers , wheels , belts and iron
" nick ' s imagination was both stirred and horrified by this and he thought of various animals but none
the strange hoarse voice if some pro said , “good bird , stevie .
' ' but you were a general officer .
' arnaldo , open the windows .
" " oh , what i ' ve told jake isn ' t any secret .
, ambulances were loading .
there ' s a good road .
' poor old mama .
it had rained a little in the night and it was fresh and cool on the plateau , and there
he pulled the reading light with his bad hand .
' the bwana can shoot after you cannot see .
you could get a diving suit and come and visit us , odgar .
' hell , no , ' i said .
i don ' t believe you could fix it , though .
' ' ronald jackson , t _num_ serial number _num_ , will present himself in the lobby of this gritti
bond between the colonel and the bar-tender .
" i ' ll be back , " i said .
that’s why you stop it all the time .
a thong tied in half hitches around the neck of the bottle .
" i ' ll kill you !
to sleep , waking occasionally to see the headlights shining on a wall of tall trees , or a naked
, with the big schwarzwald houses , until that road crossed the stream .
“sure , ” he said .
brett watched it all .
i was just worried about you .
their big , heavy-footed horses , their costumes wet , the horses ' coats wet in the rain .
on a beautifully run shoot like this one too ?
” “bet on the cubs , ” said the chef .
" " perhaps .
' ' there aren ' t any such times any more , ' the colonel said and the spell was
” “we’re old friends , ” said harris .
he lay down on a canvas cot now close to the wall of the house .
that’s a last bottle .
three hundred francs for a thing that is nothing to do .
" " oh , all right .
" how do you feel , jake ?
" " and why does one do it ?
" " just the ribbons and the papers .
i looked back and saw the beach and the dock and the boat house and the clump of balm of
i ' ll have to wait until we cross the dese river above noghera to see it perfectly , he
his wife was looking out of the window .
” “can’t we set the grass on fire ?
” “a cabinet maker .
when i woke it was half past four .
" " don ' t think , " i said .
" " not always .
“the fools , ” he thought .
i’ve thought it out lots of times .
telephone , nodded and smiled his glass-eyed smile .
were there poems too ?
” “he ought to sweat , ” said hogan .
' ' do you like coyotes ?
jack tried to tie him up and it was just like trying to hold on to a buzz-saw .
we came out of the timber and down on to the flat and in sight of the thorn fence .
don ' t you owe any money ?
” “do you change how you feel afterwards ?
' ' i like them , and cypresses and chestnut trees .
chances are we’ll hear him growl .
' the colonel said , ' _gran maestro_ .
" " you punks clear the hell out of here , " the bartender said .
' you shot very few , ' he said to the colonel .
nothing came all morning .
for all his khaki clothes and his letter from b ' wana simba , i believe these masai frightened him
” “i’d like to clear away that lion business , ” macomber said .
all during the meal she would blow out her breath in the cold damp air .
there won ' t be much shooting with this ice unless the sun should melt it later on , you
and you ' re so nice .
“i tell you true i can’t do it .
" he asked , for confirmation .
" what time is there a train for madrid ?
” “i go all right .
hard in a long slant ahead in the tall grass .
he dropped the towel from around his waist and stood on the scales .
' _doumi sana .
“you got to quit , ” he said .
" " were your books all right ?
” “a little , ” he said .
" i think it ' s a brothel !
but i think we can .
revolution is a catharsis ; an ecstasy which can only be prolonged by tyranny .
" we each drank a glass of the smooth amontillado brandy .
” “he cahnt be a gentleman , ” i said .
i began to feel drunk but i did not feel any better .
if i was going away i wanted to remember it and say good-bye .
” asked enrique .
oh , i wish it hadn’t happened , ” she said and started for her tent .
he did not understand a word .
" prudence mitchell ' s his girl .
" that ' s not very polite .
that the moist glasses would not make rings on the wood .
' it ' s hell for him to shoot in front of everybody .
i must have water here for him , the boy thought , and soap and a good towel .
harris and then picked up his coffee cup and saucer and walked to harris’s table .
she shook her head .
outside on the porch the cook got off his chair and passed into the hall that led back into the
he stood up as i came in .
“i don’t know what i want to eat .
fuentes handed him the sword .
" wasn ' t that mr .
” “how did they come up here ?
i don’t want you .
i mean any good ; in the daylight ?
” “why did he kill himself , daddy ?
' then to me , ' damn these salt-licks .
into it , or you were unsuccessful as a commander .
" in abyssinia .
' the louse-hearted , ' the colonel said .
" " you ' ll sleep , mike .
aren’t you sorry to go away ?
” “are you trying to insult me ?
, squirted his flit gun at the back of a waiter’s neck .
" i know you ' re not , " brett said .
i will take care of you .
" " good night , " said the younger waiter .
” he could not speak to tell her to make it go away and it crouched now , heavier ,
' didn ' t he look wonderful going along there ?
“but what you have to do is keep your feet in good shape .
i certainly looked for plenty of ditches .
those were guineas .
i could give her my ring from v .
must take good care of her and keep her happy and get her back safely .
hiring him .
i drank a little beer , noted the old man watching and spread out six cartridges .
the bull ' s tail went up and he charged , and romero moved his arms ahead of the bull
' ' oh , that , ' he said and motioned to the _gran maestro_ to bring champagne .
" he turned his head and looked at me .
think of what you are doing .
' ' but it is terribly swollen .
” he moved his tongue round and round on the sheet .
he said the police were right behind him and they gave him woolen socks and held the gendarmes talking until
ask donna renata if she wishes more of this excellent wine .
' when i came in the house she was dead across the bed .
” “but with women ?
old that you knew was going to die ?
“but i’m going to find out .
the americans don ' t like you to be catholique .
" sportsman , " he said .
this one " --shaking her head at cohn-- " didn ' t come home for lunch .
we don ' t care about anyone here , do we ?
“come on in , hogan , ” he says .
” he smiled .
we came down that military road , and they were hauling lots of wood .
came up , stopped under a huge tree about fifty yards from the thorn-bush fence and they all commenced carrying
“i talked about it and now i’m through .
finished with the quarrel .
” “the tessera tells you .
” “i’ve told you who he is , ” the secretary said .
the bad weather was coming over the mountains from the sea .
” “i don’t know , ” said harris .
they sat silent , manuel watching the picador’s face .
i shoved it down into the water and sculled over with the birds all around me .
ain ' t got any beer .
“i mean chase them from cars .
" joe asked .
in the market , spread on the slippery stone floor , or in their baskets , or their rope-handled boxes
” “i won’t talk about trudy .
of shells , and filled his pockets and opened another of the boxes of shells in the shell bag so
like old-fashioned battle scene .
the sand key light and he had never observed carefully how things were .
" i put down the game-bags and took in the shotgun and brought out a newspaper from the pile in
“you ought to go and eat .
" " well , i ' m tight .
his tongue was very sensitive .
when the priest uncovered her face he asked olz , ‘did your wife suffer much ?
but right now he’s got everything .
" " then the wine will be done , " fontan said .
he was all right .
it burst and there was a gray ball of smoke high up above the theatre gayarre , across on the
i ' ll get you one .
he was quite a way up the hill .
color of the sacred heart of jesus and another of the virgin of cobre .
the evening .
" what do you suppose that dance is ?
” “oh sure .
bathing .
" the sun came through the open window and shone through the beer bottles on the table .
tomorrow , you would have thought he was very angry about something .
' you had to use contours you couldn ' t see , they were so small , and ditches and
' the girl was asleep , still holding his bad hand , that he despised , and he could feel
' yes , my colonel , ' the boatman said .
the count will be back .
“they were simply madly in love .
and do you know what the young man said , horace , when the good doctor here brought him in
” “you do the sport ?
" take off your cap .
” “it feels lovely , ” his sister said .
“there’s a boy waits at table that understands a little english .
now it was a hot bath that i needed .
" " well , " i said , " to-morrow night it ' ll all be over .
nick adams looked at her and tried to think straight .
" i ' ll bring the luck with me .
” “as long as you’re in there you got a chance .
' ' god damn it if we don ' t .
i can work slow and i can see the words when i say them .
" " yes , it is a rotten shame .
the indians rowed with quick choppy strokes .
but when he came to madrid in the month of november of _num_ they still had the yellow gin and
' oh , oh , hello , ' she said .
" brett looked at me .
i suppose a pair of purdey ' s , he thought .
you’re a all right nigger , wesley .
” “we spoke with him , ” the extremaduran said .
window were dusty trees and an oiled road and flat fields of grapes , with gray-stone hills behind them .
of the house .
" you know the lad who was in here yesterday ?
an animal ; just as the way to paint is as long as there is you and colours and canvas
, and sank slowly down into the water .
they drove along .
, used under license by simon & schuster , the publisher of this work .
the klaxon .
finally he’s so he can’t keep from sleeping .
” madame fontan asked .
he was twice the size of the one i had killed .
no one came out .
" " isn ' t there something i could do ?
could be sure of getting him , getting the horns into him .
he was not dead but was shot through both lungs .
“what do you think about the shape i’m in ?
' ' don ' t you see you need to tell me things to purge your bitterness ?
so the bull-fighter chap sort of rather staggered over to him .
” “you need not go .
' by stairs or elevator ?
no one was stirring down-stairs , so i unbolted the door and went out .
where are you going , jake ?
” “i guess he’s nuts all right .
" " do you think it will be too rough on him ?
" " here , give them to me .
cards said medals will be worn .
“we are all of us in his kingdom .
ain ' t you a jew ?
” “i come here for coffee after dinner .
” just then this nigger we had getting bait comes down the dock and i told eddy to get ready
the small neat one , each wearing big stetson hats , silhouetted on the road as they walked back toward
i knew were very big shots indeed .
this time there was no rush .
“comes now with much dignity .
it was only sixteen francs apiece for bill and me , with ten per cent added for the service ,
we sat where he went into the edge of the forest near where we had seen the two fighting and
“here .
" i promise you .
four of these represent completed short stories ; the other three comprise extended scenes from unpublished , uncompleted novels .
t mind it .
blow up the canyon toward us .
' ' do generals really fight ?
for exceeding his authority or some such thing .
' the colonel asked the boatman .
“i heard the trap , ” the boy said .
let ' s see what else they have .
" don ' t feel bad , " i said .
not me .
it was fun to swim on the surface in the ocean .
their room was on the second floor facing the sea .
“it was germans .
and he ran a fine bar .
“to hell with those sharpshooters .
but she wasn’t stupid , wilson thought , no , not stupid .
" she ain ' t my girl , " he said .
one booth advertised anis del toro .
" don ' t give romero the message , " i said .
outside the window it was snowing .
" and i remember when he said it and i was a lovely piece then exactly as he said ,
” “he’ll be good to me .
said very proudly , ' wanderobo-masai wonderful guide ' .
when we arrived it was quite empty , except for a policeman sitting near the door , the wife of
" one ' s an ass to leave paris .
” “you like the married state ?
i watched him walking alone down out of the war .
are dead .
keep behind them , sergeant .
“you rich bitch .
“they’re always talking about kikes , these big irishmen .
" " it was further on .
then i saw a dark muzzle and the shadow of horns , and then , with a clattering on the
“does bwana want ?
only time he hadn’t done it stinking .
" " good old horace .
hammond , indiana .
and quite tired .
you don ' t write her .
’ ” “all right , ” i said .
" he wrote me from san sebastian .
i looked back at them and at the empty tables .
” “me too , ” hogan said .
" " don ' t talk to him , " brett said .
" " oh , cut out the prep-school stuff .
between fontainebleau and montereau that always made me feel bored and dead and dull until it was over .
” “she gave them lunch already .
' they can hear the tick birds .
gleaming , unable to smile his full , true smile as he worked the big key in the lock ,
" where ' s hogan ?
“the eleven o’clock train .
” “we’ll run them right in to the long beach , ” i told him .
” “what did you do with your shoes ?
” “his niece looks after him .
" then he called to the attendant who ran the machines .
i was glad to get home and i told the story while we were cooking supper on an electric stove
the bull wasn’t doing any harm and now we’ve tracked him to where he came to see his dead friend
i live in a good town .
the guard in front looked around .
what we have to do is use the boat to chase them so they don’t take it all when they
' we ' ve got eleven , ' says smug face , sorry now .
he came on like a submarine and his top fin came out and you could see it slice the water
the first of them .
it’s not all right with you .
“i have not seen such a comrade .
abused .
' that was all they said and the boatman placed the ducks carefully , breasts up , on the bow
" no , " jack said , " i never liked to go to these wakes .
i had never seen the trees before .
zurito , the picador , looked at manuel ' s white face .
of the blanket and then he felt the girl cold-warm and lovely and with upraised breasts that his left hand
he did not want to tell any more lies .
il n’a jamais fait de mal à personne .
of more or less north and south streets that he crossed , nor count the bridges and then try and
it was very beautiful in the spring and summer , the bay blue and bright and usually whitecaps on the
" " you want to talk a while ?
the waiter went away .
“you shoot very well , ” wilson told him .
after a while i’ll make up my mind to go out .
, and i ' ve just gotten my divorce .
what do you plan to really do ?
' watch , ' i said , and tipped the bottle up and let it all go down .
“get down here behind the angle of the bar , ” i said .
batting average even in something as simple as war .
" perforated as it is .
" the girl looked at the bead curtain , put her hand out and took hold of two of the
take joyce .
“i am happy about what has happened to my mother , ” he said .
wheeler’s bags in his charge .
he got up coughing and feeling broken and gone .
and he did not understand them , nor know their uses .
” “mangez !
' ' do i have to take it like a corn cob ?
inside the café was a restaurant .
nick splashed in a little water .
“‘you’d better find out , ’ the priest said , and put the blanket back .
toward the sea .
some bootblacks sat together under a tree talking to a soldier .
the picture is lovely .
” “i know it’s silly , ” nick said .
but at eight hundred to a thousand yards the tanks looked like small mud-colored beetles bustling in the trees and
” “francis , will you please try to speak sensibly , ” his wife said .
“they put us out in the kitchen , ” nick went on .
we talked spanish and the critic knew a little french .
“i never do .
get the agent .
even in the morning .
" " it ' s a splendid idea , " said harris .
closer to her so that there was more of his side of the blanket under him .
i must read them , he thought .
i didn’t feel like fooling with him .
why shouldn’t i make money on it ?
” “no , ” nick answered .
but i don’t care about me .
while always uttered when i would let something worthless go by to wait for something good .
when we woke next the old man was standing with the two official and highly-clothed-in-khaki guides and two others ,
” “i can get a blanket , ” his sister said .
cheap tall hotel where paul verlaine had died .
as far as i know you haven’t done anything cruel since that night on the dock with that citizen with
there were empty bottles beside the bed .
explode inside his head and that was all he ever felt .
now all the dignity and majesty and all the beauty were gone from the elephant and he was a huge
i could only see their backs but they sat the same way .
" i thought we ought to give her a little something for last night .
' ' would you really like to fight ?
” “then the wine will be done , ” fontan said .
" you ' ll be drunk , " the waiter said .
” the young gentleman looked back and shouted something .
a little man sat behind a desk at the far side of the room .
“what are you reading ?
“got anything to drink ?
we went along the grassy right bank , on a sort of shelf , now in the open , skirting
made him feel as a wound does that you think you cannot bear .
he was good and sore .
so far , and aided by flukes , my luck was running now .
" " oh , forget about it , " robert cohn said .
we used the car for several days with that mysterious , to the spaniards , slogan .
' hunt to-morrow , ' garrick put in .
” the man in command handed me the cup of wine again without saying anything .
i pointed to the sky .
seen cohn ?
hemingway attended his first bullfight , in the company of american friends , in _num_ , when he made an
“can’t you put on a bait like that , captain ?
' ' because the wind is from the wrong direction .
aren’t we friends ?
" who did you get this stuff from ?
i can get a couple of small ones there .
and what has that to do with soldiering as a trade ?
" but you know i ' m not much on those sort of places .
dust and long splintered pieces of wood hung like javelins in the tree that had been struck by lightning .
" " i feel fine .
the russian was going out at the end of the week .
” “i don’t want to see any more ever , ” the girl said .
back of the counter they drew the wine from casks .
“there isn’t any comparison , ” said nick .
he did not like them when he saw them in the greek’s ice cream parlor .
" " eat some soup , " bill said .
someone was trying the locked and bolted front door .
do you want to bathe first ?
bull and chase him all over the son-of-a-bitching country spooking it to holy bloody hell ?
' ' did you land them ?
” “it’s an awful thing , ” nick said .
what he liked to do on board was sleep and read the papers .
he just enjoyed , completely , hearing them lie at the moment , unless , of course , something concerned
ridge nobody ever dies the good lion the faithful bull get a seeing-eyed dog a man of the world summer
un espuela de hueso .
i feel like hell to-night .
mencken hates paris , i believe .
" " you neither .
' you .
" i ' ll speak perfectly frankly , monsieur barnes .
instead of mules with saddle bags , we met a dozen natives bare-legged and bare-headed dressed in white cotton cloth
he could see the big black hitching post for the gondolas and the later afternoon winter light on the wind-swept
i know a good place back by the slashing we came through where we can get berries .
' but we didn ' t know we had gotten around to your side until we heard you .
“it’s gone now , ” i said to guy .
“wasn’t it awful when you couldn’t drink at all ?
of the trail where the buff had gone through the grass .
the curb , a stone fell on the tiled floor of the porch .
many of the older fishermen will worry .
i’m called just billy .
i could have gone to zenzon or to san dona .
the two priests did not stare back at the picador .
then these girls were sick , nice girls too , all-right girls .
" _you_ don ' t have to laugh at all , see ?
a boy and girl affair .
' that ' s the one .
' ' let ' s go .
in sight we’d be all right .
he would never know now how he would have turned out ; so he could never be accepted either ,
it all right .
in the square a man , bent over , was playing on a reed-pipe , and a crowd of children
' ' was it as bad as here ?
we had never had wild ducks , since they are of such expense , and outside of our way of
now he was back here at the river , he had gone through that same town , and there was
” “no , ghee .
they were all standing outside the chapel where san fermin and the dignitaries had passed in , leaving a guard
drevitts got frightened when he found they were both dead .
i’m too tired .
anywhere .
" you don ' t need to worry , " nick said .
“oh , yes , ” william campbell said , speaking directly against the sheet and feeling the texture with his
” “why don’t we have one ?
it was only temporary of course .
i’m sending it over to you .
and now , lying in the shelter of the trench , i was wet with sweat , hungry and thirsty
" well , " i said , " we ' re out away from them .
the place has not even been swept out yet and they have an amateur pianist beating on the box .
' ' probably they do .
her chest .
still i must sleep .
" " you can ' t just quit like that , billy , " turner said .
” “perversion , ” he said .
“he’s a perfect size for mrs .
the inspiration of some of his best writing .
' ' i don ' t know if i could do it .
” she sat and looked at the glass .
" the old man looked at him with his sun-burned , confident loving eyes .
a little smashed can smell plenty .
" " you were probably damn good for him .
' ' no one knows how to behave in america , ' pop said .
splayzey .
“are you putting questions to me ?
i have bad luck now for fifteen years .
” “i’ll go now .
to communicate with them rapidly would be by racing carrier pigeons .
francis , ” margot said quite pleasantly .
i’ll be really happy to .
he was bleeding badly .
will you make all the promises again ?
to hell with you , brett ashley .
it certainly would be odd if instead of going to hell , as we always counted on , we should
but i’m glad really because now we have thrown it away .
' ' garbo .
walked back to the san francisco docks , stopping in at three or four places for a beer on the
“pianola , joe , ” my old man said when he dismounted in the winning stall after what the wops
” “what did you do ?
_num_ d soldier—what about some more wine ?
" do i have to talk to her ?
' i love you very much the way you are , ' the colonel said .
" wake up old man , " the boy said and put his hand on one of the old man
balcony with the broken latticed curtains ; but , as i said , it was too far .
oh boy i wish i could tell you .
we only want twelve hides altogether .
' did you love your wife ?
clamp tight .
' i ' m sorry .
but they are working far out and fast .
” “wouldn’t you like some more broth ?
“well , that’s what you’re out here for , isn’t it ?
then he worked his way slowly back to the bow .
_there_ was romance .
the booze has him down .
” said mr .
to brett , who wrapped it in a handkerchief belonging to myself , and left both ear and handkerchief ,
' ' how is your health ?
' ' if he ever comes back .
" said madame fontan .
you will enjoy these warm , homespun , american tales , bits of real life on the open ranch ,
beyond .
john , what will they do with nickie ?
' ' we can decide that any time .
' ' it will be daylight before we get there if we don ' t hurry .
” “i don’t mean anything violent .
_num_ d roman soldier—what the hell , george !
message came from one of the three battalions , when the battalion commander spoke the absolute truth and told you
the fountains were at the place de l ' observatoire (_water sheen rippling on the bronze of horses ' manes
' and now , since she is not , let us forget her for keeps .
" " himself .
' ' you ' re so damned noble that sometimes you stink , ' the colonel said .
he thought .
he leaned forward over the papers .
" " bill , " edna looked at me .
how did you get him ?
' also a nylon-smooth captain of the navy who could not command a cat-boat wrote about the intimate side of
and he did not have a radio , he thought much and he kept on thinking about sin .
and then feeling the trail smooth under foot , walking along that deep trail , that wound through the dark
' i ' m through , ' says the other .
” “anyway , nobody knows yet if it works .
down i started the engine and headed her in slow toward land .
one in a german patrol had thrown as he was coming in through the wire that night and , screaming
“a quid would be plenty , ” wilson told him .
“ou want to try to pass for it once ?
and emptying him neatly took out the liver , cut away the gall , and laying the liver on a
“about seventy-five .
i knew you wouldn ' t pass out .
then he gave it to frankie for me .
” “you’re a rummy .
let us all walk together .
' he said _oficio_ instead of trade , because they spoke spanish together , too , when they left french
' my well beloved .
three houses up the street was hirsch’s rooming-house .
the wicked .
on that thermometer thirty-seven is normal .
he was out of sight .
" would you bring me the wine list ?
he turned and she had leaned forward over the low seat and kissed him on the mouth .
” baldy drank it off .
a jockey—and then we always sat at the same table and they got used to seeing us there .
“only it’s kind of late for me .
” her lips were salty and her face was wet with the seawater and as he kissed her she turned
that ' s a last bottle .
” “do you think you’ll get lonesome with me ?
let no man be ashamed to kneel here in the great out-of-doors .
' ' yes , sir .
all of a sudden i see his rod jerk and the line go slack .
" the line rose slowly and steadily and then the surface of the ocean bulged ahead of the boat and
” asked enrique standing against the sink , holding his wine glass and wearing his apron .
” they paid the widow woman and took a couple of bottles of the cold regal in a paper sack
the one experience that he had never had he was not going to spoil now .
' no , ' he said .
look at hardy .
' ' we come from the same town ; but from distinct quarters .
“watch out how that egg runs , ” the negro warned .
you should hunt kudu alone .
to me they are only something to wear like a dress from paris .
' ' just tell me what you wish and take this glass of valpolicella and stop if it makes you
all the piles of lumber were carried away .
' everything about war bores those who have not made it .
" " it ' s a hell of a nuisance once they ' ve had you certified as nutty ,
nobody would give you a penny for your thoughts , he thought .
they built venice .
the bull ' s eyes watched it .
they were splintered open and the roofs sagged in .
” “why don’t you go to bed ?
muy borracho !
this impressed the roman greatly .
in the afternoon the road would be shady once he had passed the canal .
” then he went on , “you see , now , they’re not frightened of tanks any more .
so to say something i raised my voice above the noise and asked , “you in the radio ?
you can’t have brought the originals and the typed originals and the carbons .
never mind the boat .
with the core of the reel showing , his heart feeling stopped with the excitement , leaning back against the
the rain can make all places strange , even places where you live .
but we do have a lovely time don’t we ?
whoosh !
plenty of luck , all right .
he took off a wide rubber band and drew out several papers , selected one , and handed it to
they unhooked the screen door and went into the kitchen .
you shot damn well .
” “i don’t like to leave anything , ” the man said .
” “she asked questions , ” roger said .
“i hated to think of staying the first night in that hotel .
as it became less mucky and there were more hummocks broken by water , sometimes i went in to the
” nick followed the woman up a flight of stairs and back to the end of a corridor .
it’s awful cold water , littless .
" what should we drink ?
you take the wheel when i tell you to and do what i tell you to .
; besides , it did a picador like that good to worry .
now he went on through the town , surprised to find it deserted , and came out on the low
' you want to see the old man tight , i suppose ?
we went back to the car and did this , working several clearings with no luck .
based on this town or on padova .
if i killed , the joke was on the birds and m ' cola would shake his head and laugh
or seen skinned-out every animal that i had ever shot , yet remembered every one exactly as he was at
do the females have horns ?
" che mala fortuna !
“maybe he’s asleep , ” i said .
we sat down opposite them .
“they’re coming in for the night .
m ' cola was working on the heads now , skinning out one skull and showing kamau how to skin
morning .
that ' s the only way the luck has a chance to even up , ever .
“keep them covered , red , ” i said .
they didn’t do much to this in the bombardment .
some wild-man had shot at our kudu and spooked them away from the salt and now the lick was being
” “my god , yes .
afternoon at the hospital .
" nobody ever knows anything .
her attention always wandered .
we were waiting on the platform .
" " he ' s a good chap .
a man shouted from behind one of the boxes and slapped his hat against the planks , and the bull
drum came down the corridor .
it smelled pleasantly of canvas .
you ' ve known that .
allez vite .
he sweated himself until they were well past on their way to the dock because he thought they might stop
underfoot .
" you take the bull and give him a little run when he comes out , " manuel said .
there was petrol that had been left for us to use in case we were short and for us to
“please , nickie , i’m sorry i brought it up .
she wouldn ' t look up .
" " no , thank you , " nick said .
simple , isn ' t it ?
one time it had been two sailors when he had been walking with the girl at night .
” she shook her head and he could feel her tremble .
“there won’t be any tourists out with this weather .
the woman who ran the hotel would not let me pay the bill .
but don ' t you _really_ think pop ' s handsome ?
i could see the line slant up .
we were clearing them off the pier , had to clear off the dead ones , and this old woman
incidentally , and of course these occurrences are always incidental at the shaef level , the regiment was destroyed .
every day is a new and fine illusion .
" " but i fear the indians of cleveland .
then he looked down at the machine and jerked his little hand out from between the straps and slapped it
” they ate pineapple pie for dessert and each had another cold bottle of regal fresh from deep in the
” “i will wait a while , ” he said , “and then i will go .
' ' what do you think ?
they still had indian quinine water .
the bull was standing , his four feet square , looking at the muleta .
” he was very embarrassed , having brought out this thing he had lived by , but he had seen
” odgar’s voice was unnatural talking to kate .
i’m going down and pray for him now .
he put the big gun in my hand and took the springfield .
he was sure he would get hooked in the branches .
” tommy turned to me .
after the storm it wasn’t about anything , some thing about making punch , and then we started fighting and
" " she must have gone to bed .
in hurtgen they just froze up hard ; and it was so cold they froze up with ruddy faces .
' ' i brought my repellent .
' she had combed her hair with patience when they came into the hotel and she had gone into the
“let’s talk about writing .
' ' i believe he is , you know , ' pop said .
and he never told anybody .
" don ' t worry , " brett said .
maybe fontan will have some of the wine .
come here , you bloody humpty dumpty .
it was a quiet night .
going through it it all seemed to be connected and in michigan one part of the country hasn’t any connection
" " pedrico is looking after the skiff and the gear .
in his leather wallet , walked over to his motorcycle and , pushing it up through the stream of mules
he walked with great dignity across the part of the street where you were sometimes fired on and continued on
nick swung the rod back over his shoulder and forward , and the line , curving forward , laid the
" " but you put it so badly , " brett laughed .
“there will just be my nose out of water and the tips of my breasts maybe and my toes and
" maybe it works for some people , though .
it ' s too ridiculous .
getting off a street car before daylight in the morning carrying their instruments .
now he knew there was the fish and his hands and back were no dream .
" " i ' m taking it easy , " he said and looked straight ahead .
take that sad jewish face away .
the beer , and then they take the moonshine out of their pockets in a bottle and pour it in
however , there were many ducks and geese in the canals , and men were fishing in them all along
“i have a son at the front , ” he said .
i had seen it in his eye the first time he saw me take a drink .
i thought it would all be like where we lived only more of it and that it would be just
took it off and put it under two stones in the creek and said that he had lost it .
we looked in the window .
“fräulein , ” he called the waitress .
nick rested in the water , barely paddling and comfortable .
cartridges , and cakes of chocolates in his pockets , and the big gun over his shoulder , then the
' wrote _ulysses_ .
” “where’s she now ?
you , mon vieux .
but if he only half-looked they were there , the far-off hills of the height of land .
if they kill him juma will drink his share of the ivory or just buy himself another goddamn wife .
there was a little jolt as romero came clear , and then he was standing , one hand up ,
all of the night sounds had stopped .
over to the stream to see if there were any trout .
the machines , sometimes we walked back together to the café cova , which was next door to the scala
houses , the long docks going out into the water and close by the station the gravelled patch around the
suddenly fontan took a loose board and commenced digging at the earth beside the back door .
a porter opened the door .
take this and buy your horse some oats .
" he took out a receipt-book , made in duplicate , and perforated , so one side could be given
les hommes à côté du feu .
the boys said there was a very big one about here .
they are just extra beds that were not used afterwards for various reasons , or possibly to respect lord byron
the wormwood so that without becoming sweet , or even sweeter , it becomes less bitter and there are parts
she smiled at him .
m ' cola found the tracks .
' let her stay here with m ' cola , ' i said .
“i’ll be where the big hemlock is that was struck by lightning .
where is she gone out ?
“seat yourselves , gentlemen .
” “you don’t have to call it .
i was tight .
i ruined us both .
" but why should he necessarily lose it ?
” “it is a very little thing to do .
“the offensive , comrade , has not yet reached a decision .
what can one do ?
they climbed back in the wagon again .
“oh , no , ” she said .
good cattle now too .
on the table before nick .
' the correspondents were muttering , or twittering , and the intelligent ones were glum or passively cheerful .
still , i figured he had been out late and probably didn’t get up till around noon .
he was so uncomplaining she said and he was very bad now .
fights and almost always at some time in the fall of the year and always when leaving paris .
" you go now ?
we ' ll buy the car in kansas city .
" you were only going to give me a hundred pounds , weren ' t you , robert ?
show .
we wanted something cool and some shade .
" " you talk silly , " al said to him .
“right this way , gentlemen , ” said eddy .
until the dead are buried they change somewhat in appearance each day .
oh , pedro .
the road was enfiladed from that house .
" you want me to go ?
piga , b ' wana !
“don’t put your head out , jimmy , ” my father said .
he blew his breath at me to show how cold it was , and went on playing .
' then , a little later : ' well , who ' s handsome to you ?
' waiter , _ancora due martini_ .
hundred meters like pulling a cork out of a bottle .
" ever interfere with a cook ?
his bulk was in the shadow but the moonlight would be on his head .
' ' i ' m not abnormal yet .
i ' d look a fright .
i was a little tired of skiing .
“i’d like to just have one good look at him .
" i think i ' d rather play football again with what i know about handling myself , now .
he was looking at the wall .
when they wanted to know what he wished played , he asked for the cucaracha , which has the sinister
in a while you would hear the whistle .
money back and you have it to pay me .
of our money , so that what should have been as much fun to do each day whether you killed
if you go away and have some fun then i have a good conscience .
i had been wounded , it was true ; but we all knew that being wounded , after all ,
she was a three-masted schooner and i could just see the stumps of her spars out of water .
i knew him like you know nobody in the world and i loved him like you love god .
' pop , what does it mean when they shake hands and get hold of your thumb and pull it
_] when the weight starts to pull on ' em .
" do you think that is the only use i have for morphine ?
' ' we have the most terrific military secrets that one general ' s wife ever told another .
i loved them all very much , the woodshed and the fence and the hills and the woods and i
“it only cost a quarter , ” the girl said when she came back with the jug .
' they are really interchangeable .
” “let’s not think about him .
feel that he had invented , or at least erected , the colonel as you might be happy about participating
” the hemlock planks of the dock were hard and splintery and cold and jim was heavy on her and
but the good lion would sit and fold his wings back and ask politely if he might have a negroni
' ' no , ' the colonel disagreed .
“you like me ?
' he sits in his pyjamas and drinks the beer , and then he goes up to the fort and
“weren’t we lucky to get her ?
i learned that word , too , from my governess .
frances was talking on to him , smiling brightly , looking into his face each time she asked : "
" oh , brett , i love you so much .
but i don’t think so .
“don’t pay any attention to me .
" " martin .
rommel put it .
but who has not been ?
hit johnson’s bait .
” above the roar of the motors and the high , slapping rush of the boat through the water he
sometimes he lost the scent .
“if it was a man—” “don’t say that .
' ' to hell with that shot .
he felt the firm bottom of the shallow lagoon , put his weight on the top of the wide oar-blade
not pleasant putting them on .
' you ' re on the town .
but anyway they couldn ' t have known they were quicksands and when she struck the captain must have ordered
then , too , i might be wrong and this might be the big bull , he might possibly have
motor cars made it familiar .
“well , it’s not right , ” he said .
“you don’t know , ” said his father .
it was right after the premio commercio that we pulled out and left italy .
hernandez put his arm around him .
" " eat those garlics , robert , " mike said .
bill was a good drunk .
his mutilated face looked childish in repose .
' ' how do you make a break for armour to go through ?
“take this bottle and the sausage and i’ll wash the shirt in no time .
or enema .
" you know english , " i said , feeling like an idiot .
he poured the whisky into the glass nick held out .
chopping through when we were stopped , avoiding all we could , kamau driving with intelligence and a sound feeling
leave it at english .
chapter _num_ at five o ' clock i was in the hotel crillon waiting for brett .
every man ought to be married .
i’m not blackie any more .
" please don ' t touch me .
but they’re not real catholiques .
your gun-bearer can carry your heavy gun .
i am the victim of illusions .
” i’d have killed him .
it was my fault .
plenty rough and i took it down along ; and when it was daylight i was off eastern harbor .
but we ' ve got some good ones , too .
rough the water was .
i watched him crossing the street through the taxis , small , heavy , slowly sure of himself in the
and turning saw the lion , horrible-looking now , with half his head seeming to be gone , crawling toward
“i don’t want any more of that .
" no , " she said .
irregular explosions , it passed close behind us to go on up the road .
he walked into the house with the paper package and i stayed outside on the grass with the two game-bags
we played cribbage and he won three dollars off me .
" she did not say anything , just took off her glasses and wiped them on her apron .
but he was a little changed himself from being in africa .
then it was sweet fern , growing ankle high , to walk through , and clumps of jack pines ;
it was just that we were an older country in america and the biggest game was gone .
some of it is lovely .
“it must be sort of like the holy rollers only in the brain .
they were very frightened .
no , i don’t want just to be encouraged .
we turned out onto the gran via .
" " the best , " said johnson .
' ' so .
” we went down the hall , manolita , me and the tall englishman , and found the boys had
" " it ' s a nice day , " i said .
“yes , father , ” said the good lion and he flew down lightly and walked to harry’s bar on
brightly .
he bent his head down again so that it would not show above the dead branches and we sat there
” “i am of the tanks , ” said al .
two swiss sat over their pipes and two decies of cloudy new wine next to the stove .
they can’t hear .
this is the time .
but these had all been bought up before we got there so we just drew the soup , the rice
he put his pad of paper in his pocket and looked over toward manuel , standing very much alone in
then the music started again and we danced .
" " i ' m not joking you , " the count blew a cloud of smoke .
but when we do understand each other there’s no use to pretend we don’t .
dock .
jim pulled the burlap sacks off the deer and liz looked at them .
, thin masai with a spear came up , said good morning , and stood , on one leg ,
, and never frightening , and assuming about the other person , and always taking never asking , and gentleness
“wine always makes me feel this way , ” he said .
it is almost worthless , he says .
the train was starting to slow .
when she came back to the lit salon compartment again , the beds had been pushed back into the wall
” “like surrealism ?
we crossed the spanish frontier .
that’s the way you’re supposed to be .
he’s a hooker and he carries his hands pretty low .
but there weren ' t any cigarettes and postcards and no chocolate .
i could learn to talk in a non-irritating way .
after all you are a rich american .
top that had once held copenhagen snuff .
quand j’étais venu ici je disais , oh , my god , what are all the churches ?
doc fischer was thin , sand-blond , with a thin mouth , amused eyes and gambler’s hands .
' the trouble is , ' he said , ' he ' s a garter snapper .
the rain made the windows of the train wet so you could not see outside clearly and then it made
zurito stood beside the table , bending over where the doctor was working .
" " pipe down .
but good battalion commanders have never yet grown on trees ; not even christmas trees which was the basic tree
poor fellow , he suffered too .
he’s heading in somewhere .
he put his arm around his sister .
we turned up the road .
to run out to fuentes with the new banderillos .
there was the great miracle and he had never consciously implemented it .
you’re getting to be an awful moralist , he thought .
but it is a topic on which you must be chary in your credibility .
it felt strange to be in france again .
" you look very happy this morning .
" the major wants you , " the adjutant said .
the ducks , they were pin-tails , continued on their flight out towards the sea .
there than they did later , at smyrna , where the greeks broke the legs of all their baggage animals
but there was no way to keep its scent out of the water and the old man knew that a
maybe i ought to be in something else .
nick loved his father but hated the smell of him and once when he had to wear a suit of
" your friends are here , " he said .
it read : " stopped night san sebastian .
, worn , wooded hills with trees like beeches and clusters of huts with fire smoking and cattle home driven
” they sat against one of the cedars and nick opened the birds and took out their warm entrails and
" pinin went out , leaving the door open .
any one of them was a good prospect to grow up , put on weight and trim dempsey .
" i ' m sorry , jake .
we ?
, but when walcott gets his hands loose he socks jack in the body so they can hear it outside
“everything’s got its compensations .
” “and what is there to do ?
they’re not the real fool hens .
" prosit , " said johnson .
" what ' s this ?
part of the time he talked in d’ampezzo dialect and sometimes in tyroler german dialect .
" i ' ll send a wire to the keeper .
" asked the girl .
there were four hundred and fifty passengers and the crew on board of her and they must all have been
" he wouldn ' t get his travelling-clothes dirty .
” the girl did not say anything .
” “go to hell .
both men ate with their gloves on .
“let’s not say vice , ” she said .
" outside the arc-light shone through the bare branches of a tree .
' or i ' ll buy him myself .
” “you have forgotten the package , ” the waiter said .
“mister adams is right hungry , ” the negro said .
we are a poor province .
” “i don’t know yet .
would bite at an oar or the rudder of a boat .
“the taxi i had got tied up in the traffic and i got out and walked .
figuring things out when they were shooting at you , he added .
" " i ' m not getting drunk , " i said .
frankie fritsch went to fordham .
what do you think about the morning ?
“they’d shut up as soon as they knew it was us .
the roman made us free of this and of the enclosure with a wave of his hand and kept on
they rose in soft panic ; passing the fires of the travellers that all moved to the westward by day
' how are all the members of the order ?
but un-choleric face , said .
you can see cloud ' s peak .
that’s not his trade .
with her .
he was reaching for his coffee and as he picked it up the little man jerked and he spilled it
it is very important to discover graceful exits like that in the newspaper business , where it is such an
it was the most interesting reading he had ever done .
dock and the boat house were out of sight and there was only the point with three crows walking on
“i’m fine .
' the colonel looked out of the windows and the door of the bar on to the waters of the
' ' you are a member now , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
' you misunderstand , ' kandisky said .
" he ' s too damn close , " zurito said .
” “i can’t sleep , either .
" he wants to go back to new york alone , and be there when his book comes out so
" i thought he must be figuring on taking an awful beating if he doesn ' t want to go
him , ' what sort of meat have you that is worth our eating ?
some very rapid talk and the price was much lower .
front seat and we got in .
probably he never would .
a wonderful day for trout fishing .
' why didn ' t you make him draw the colour line , mr .
faded sugar sack from his pocket .
“i always sleep warm you know .
' i was in the thirty-sixth division , sir .
beyond all people in the world .
“senta rinaldi .
“one catholique is like another .
as a field for the observations of the naturalist .
” “i wish he would go home .
' ' measure , ' m ' cola pleaded .
' through the dark came all the porters , the cook , the skinner , the boys , and the
" " well , " the man said , " if you don ' t want to you don '
barnes , it is because i have lived very much that now i can enjoy everything so well .
" " you ' re cock-eyed .
" i want to go to cadillac , " the cook said .
" " she was in the woods with frank washburn .
the boy was back now with the sardines and the two baits wrapped in a newspaper and they went down
" " don ' t kid me .
" " i ' m going back to mike .
' what ' s an oryx ?
" " all catholiques are the same , " fontan said .
killed too many bloody lions .
“the light is very bright and pleasant but the bar is unpolished , ” the waiter said .
i learned to call cities towns from you .
i ' ve not much more time to fish .
another absinthe for this señor !
” “what do you want me to do ?
have you taken care of the sergeant ?
" " i say , " mike said , " that romero what ' shisname is somebody .
' in this country you find a bridge or a railway station .
it was my fault but i was glad to see it run at first .
“i’ll try to make it come true .
then , one at a time , we sprinted across to the lee of the wall .
the fish was still jumping and he went on jumping until he was out of sight .
home and into their fathers ' businesses .
, rose-coloured , gauze-winged locusts that rose in clouds about us , making a whirring like a mowing machine ,
because they are ambitious .
there ' re a lot of people in walcott ' s corner .
fathers and sons there had been a sign to detour in the center of the main street of this town
large intestine with soap and water and tucking it back where it belonged an unnumbered amount of times a day
i ' d like to get somebody else to tell it to her though and build me solid .
not heavy , serious .
“that’s fine , ” he said .
what were you doing ?
” “we wouldn’t mind that , captain doctor .
that’s a good one .
' ' but you do nothing for them ?
“we have to work here .
promoter claimed nigger promised let local boy stay .
have you known her a long time ?
went out of sight over the top of the bank .
, “walcott on a foul .
he was a poor bloody colonel , too .
a spring flowed out of an iron pipe .
above them they heard a shout , then another shout of laughter .
he loved bull-fighting , and i think he loved the bulls , and i think he loved brett .
why am i kept in ignorance of everything that goes on ?
“he couldn’t make sense in a month .
" " you were saying about sliding .
again , then again , then again , and the bullets , all of them hitting , had no effect
by raising your right heel .
beautiful lady who looked like the pictures of anna held on the inside of cigar boxes .
the bull was gone .
let ' s go in and see them .
the fish was silvery and still and floated with the waves .
they were staring at brett .
“you must not joke me like that .
" zurito rode by , a bulky equestrian statue .
drained of blood and awash he looked the colour of the silver backing of a mirror and his stripes still
roanoke , virginia february _num_ , _num_ dear doctor— may i write you for some very important advice—i have a
m ' cola wore an old u .
the bull’s legs tightened .
” the beach was white sand , almost as fine as flour , and it ran for miles .
the hills ahead were not wooded , and there were great fields of yellow gorse .
' let ' s not think about anything at all .
' ' come on , let ' s pull ourselves together and try to act like white people with him
call me daughter .
turner said .
the shelling was over .
and smoother .
in a sheaf of typewritten pages which he replaced in his pocket .
at any time he knew he could strike the river by turning off to his left .
the sun rose thinly from the sea and the old man could see the other boats , low on the
we have forgotten it .
little gambling is all crooked .
along on my elbows , the bullets whocking into the brick wall over my back and twice spurting dirt over
when she came she was excited and he knew she was tired .
" " they brought some beer .
" " oh , to hell with the clock , " the first man said .
" then i ' ll make you !
then he would put it in a different pocket and have to go searching again .
up for us , we used to listen for the whistling call of the bobwhites in that country to the
we were born lucky , he thought .
what would you do with their wives , he asked himself ?
i knew i could outshoot him and i could always outwalk him and , steadily , he got trophies that
“you gentlemen chartered me for a day .
you know that willie sawyer he’ll never be a man of the world .
all along the road .
” “no sir , ” said the chef .
i was not kicked again .
you could look down on both sides into a steep ravine , and then went on along the edge of
' ' thanks , ' the colonel said .
manuel rose to his toes , sighting along the steel , and charged .
why didn’t you help the elephant when you could ?
everything is good except this’— and showed us the stump .
“it’s deep and scary for a little stream .
one to her and i couldn ' t get into her .
' ' i don ' t think i should take them .
“keep well back , daughter , ” i said to the american girl .
let him go out and get a reputation , i told them .
he made his way up the creek , keeping back from the stream but once stepping onto a piece of
mind that any more .
' ' the tide is low .
" no , " said doc fischer .
gone out he decided that he might as well stay in bed .
he could hear her breathing in the dark .
for your information i’m one of the three most important men in the united states today .
it ' s not too pleasant for me .
also a retired colonel ' s pay .
” “he got hurt .
she saw nick pumping the gun and shoot twice more and each time she heard another pounding of wings in
” “when was that ?
” “still .
i had stuff for a while that i wished i could have sent back afterwards or to their families .
i thought i had paid for everything .
but isn’t he awfully big ?
wall to the right .
“i have a fresh and original talent for description .
' ' if i had lied as others lied , i would have been a three-star general .
“what was it like , papa , when you were a little boy and used to hunt with the indians
we ' re all having an hors-d ' oeuvre .
i would like to have a share in your sad trade .
you came down to san sebastian where you weren ' t wanted , and followed brett around like a bloody
two shots , maybe .
he handed it with the hilt up and the blade dripping with the blood from the heart of the brave
“could you not send friends of cayetano to see him ?
“have a good walk ?
" " no , hombre , only to make a joke .
" if they gave me another shot at him , i ' d kill him , " zurito said .
i had not meant to drink it fast .
“i’m afraid i hit him just a little hard .
” “i wonder how it can get so white and so floury .
it was worse just to live there than to fight anywhere else .
” pancho said .
" " no , it wouldn ' t .
the trunks of the trees went straight up or slanted toward each other .
not really ?
his knees , hot-sweet choking , coughing it onto the rock while they went past him , he saw a
' i suppose it ' s merely condition .
anyway i’m shot is bad .
" " i ' ll go find hogan , " i said .
" " my god , yes .
" she ' s done it twice .
had eaten the shrimps .
the counter .
oh !
' she must , or she would be gone long ago .
command military districts in peace time .
the best time he had ever hit it was with andy one time in the winter and another time driving
“it’s a dirty habit .
' ' i would take anything i love and throw it off the highest cliff you ever saw and not
" aren ' t they lovely ?
we had trouble , twice , at boggy places and garrick seemed to be in a state of great hysteria
not believe its length .
from the new wine-bag .
“where did we stay in paris ?
the man called harry waved his good arm in reply .
they were brown and dusty and their stems dried .
ted lewis could lick you too .
you never went .
the dog found three cripples shot by other people .
” “i’m glad you came up , ” i said .
" " you bet .
you shouldn’t have frightened me like that .
every night when he dreamed with sacré coeur , blown white , like a soap bubble .
' ' i was not talking against bach , ' the colonel said .
' ' chai in the morning .
those kids were like pancho .
“there is tonic water still in the bottle .
" i feel tight .
under the light .
the sun and making a splash like throwing a horse off a cliff .
it was shameful .
it is a vice .
the five of us in single file , droop and m ' cola with a big gun apiece , hung
' we haven ' t even ordered yet .
dust as they galloped .
discharged from the service some few months ago--and went to his mother ' s home in helena , arkansas .
that sounded simple , he thought .
you just walk ahead a little way and let me look at your back and your can .
' or get your t .
“it’s soft , ain’t it ?
there was no ---- in portrait and he felt shame for having talked to portrait roughly .
making punch , and then we started fighting and i slipped and he had me down kneeling on my chest
i only thought if you fished them some time it might remind you of what a good time we had
cuts out the editorials and the sport page and sends them to me .
and at daylight when the bettors were asking that it be called a draw and the referee was shaking his
" " you must have a drink with me , " he said .
f---- your mother .
toward the train .
he looked back at the coils of line and they were feeding smoothly .
three schools of thought .
i brought the money .
" i ' m a bull-fighter , " manuel said .
he came up to the lean-to very quietly and his sister did not hear him .
if they could hit them .
back of the filing slits and the lockboxes and the registry book and the flat stamp books in place along
which were courage and a calm capability , and his name on a poster would draw no one to a
' droopy nodded and grinned .
football so they can understand , themselves , what they are talking of .
we got in early in the afternoon from the shooting-trip .
“i don’t want this bohunk to stop me .
over the pass into switzerland .
after a while it got dark and the searchlights came out .
fallen leaves and watch the kudu feed out and never fire a shot unless i saw a better head than
but new orleans isn’t really the way i thought it would be .
' ' i ' ll damn well find happiness , too , ' the colonel assured him .
” “oh yes i am .
can’t i , nickie ?
the gong rang and we pushed him out .
" brett took them .
but we weren’t engaged , ” nick said .
" " oh , frightful , " mike said .
campbell ?
' ' i always wondered what you did .
“i wasn’t saying .
we knocked on jack ' s door .
" by all means .
poor man all his life .
then he looked at her .
” “you’re remembering well today , ” she said .
there were wet dead leaves on the paving of the courtyard .
nothing came to the salt .
the music and the dancing were going on .
watch the noble exits that they make .
he came over and sat down beside her on the blanket .
' did you hit him ?
at the head of the table were two good-looking french girls , with much rue du faubourg montmartre chic .
maybe they treat me well because i ' m a chicken colonel on the winning side .
you gentlemen take a shower and bruce will rub you down .
' ' you aren ' t on the junk , are you ?
the good lion once upon a time there was a lion that lived in africa with all the other lions
' i ' ll tell you any god-damn thing you want to know .
out of the corner of his eye he saw zurito sitting the white horse close to the barrera , about
” “there’s nothing to prove he won’t be , ” i said .
pop was awake and heard it too and we took our guns , without speaking , and started toward where
thing because they never knew about the turk .
she knocked on the door .
“and any time i may have to take off and go on more .
” yes , i guess it was , he thought .
' ' that ' s the first mean thing i ever heard you say .
he adjusted the pack harness around the bundle , pulling straps tight , slung the pack on his back ,
' m ' cola said .
there’s really nothing for them to see unless they are a bit too nice .
” “couldn’t you have gotten into something else ?
was increasing the pace a little .
with brown pinching heads that would not stay on the hook and emptied into nothing in the cold water ,
“let’s not talk about the lion , ” she said .
" he ' s going to tell us about the peasant we saw filling the grave , coming into town
he nodded his head .
" " i know a lot , " william campbell said .
" i wish you would let me get this .
he must go over and salute the president .
and it was raining .
comes here now to die for our benefit .
oh , quite .
the punishment of the hook is nothing .
' ' how did the river turn out ?
' ' please keep on trying .
then she picked it up .
finally the gun-bearers brought the skin over , wet and heavy , and climbed in behind with it , rolling
' ' i tell you now .
“it was frightfully exciting , ” she said .
we have to think out where he’ll be .
” “can i come ?
" brett gestured at him from the bar with her cigarette-holder and wrinkled the corners of her eyes .
i noticed it was cocked , looked at m ' cola , furious with him , kneeled down and shot
” “no , ” said the major .
” “how do you mean , signor maggiore ?
they stole a lot from the edges and paid stumpage on it .
above the pile of logs that crossed the stream .
i think it is a little more complicated , though .
then marjorie rowed the boat out over the channel-bank , holding the line in her teeth , and looking toward
i spent a little money and the waiter liked me .
" he called to the bull , " tomar !
” “do you think we ought to tell the sergeant” “no , ” i said .
oh , damned fine .
nick leaned back against a stump and slipped out of the pack harness .
' ' did we ever get it ?
wilson looked at macomber with his flat , blue , machine-gunner’s eyes and the other smiled back at him .
” “it’s a long way there through the swamp , nicky .
” “oh , she carries the whore’s train when she walks and opens her carriage door and shows her to
" he walked out and up the street .
the truer i try to make it the duller it is .
on the grassy bank where it was damp i drove the mattock into the earth and loosened a chunk of
jack was as safe as a church all the time he was in there , as long as he was
“american men are the only men in the world to marry .
" at this time he had a contract for six fights at four thousand pesos a fight besides his benefit
' ' is it a cadillac now ?
but mrs .
' how far away is the country ?
“want me to put out another rod ?
any foreigner can flatter him .
outside a night train , running on the street-car tracks , went by carrying vegetables to the markets .
country and the canyon running down to the rift valley and lake manyara .
” “say , jerry , ” john said to me .
like any other man .
the khaki-clothed guide referred to this professional hunter as b ' wana simba and the name infuriated us all .
in its sheath , he worked his way slowly back to the bow .
i hope she is , he thought .
as we watched he speeded up and came , fast trotting , angling down across the face of the bank
wait till he was fifty .
i do not know whom you are fighting , nor what forces are at your disposal .
_ _num_ d soldier_--what become of his gang ?
she was going to bring it to me as a surprise .
he was an old man with small mine-tired body , a drooping gray mustache , and bright eyes , and
retana’s man handed him the heavy porous jug .
as we came in on our way to the dressing-room i saw how full it was .
jack didn ' t talk much .
when anything came up he went into this blankness .
" the second time i was better .
“a little more , ” he said .
giotto , masaccio , and piero della francesca he bought reproductions of and carried them wrapped in a copy of
getting off a street-car before daylight in the morning carrying their instruments .
as big as the whole world .
she went by once more and i caught her eye , and she came over and sat down at the
as i lay in bed before i went to sleep , with all the things of the summer piled around
wonderful how one loses track of the days up here in the mountains .
” “bertrand , ” i called over to the second outfit .
at this point m ' cola made a joke .
” “i will show him to you .
our stay on earth is not for long .
write him at the of ice in paris .
of the seat again and said , “thank you for letting me keep him when i wanted him so much
' the colonel said .
" i ' m not clever .
" " you don ' t know frances .
i better put a small line out with a spoon on it and try and get something to eat and
was it ?
” “it would be too much for me .
neither he nor romero seemed to have anything in common with the others .
he laid it closed on the palm of his left hand .
i keep that .
this was a virgin country , an un-hunted pocket in the million miles of bloody africa .
then they bellied over the big double bullfinch and something came down .
" this is bill gorton .
with the cloth on the stick .
” “hell of a situation , ” i said .
the other two ate as comfortably as they could .
' ' do i have to ?
" eat , " he said .
" " say , signor tenente , what did you get in this war for , anyway ?
we trailed the man , moving slowly through the trees and stalking the lick carefully , up and into the
tell him that i denounced him .
i understood how a man might suddenly , seeing clearly the stupidity of dying in an unsuccessful attack ; or
' we had heard a lion roaring just before daylight when we were getting up .
he knew he did not deserve it and he accepted it and he lived by it , but he sought
" oh , it was a joke , then , " mrs .
” “no , ” said johnson , “it is not interesting .
” “you mean all wrong .
the trail to the skiff , feeling the pebbled sand under their feet , and lifted the skiff and slid
there was only one evening left now , and no reason to expect we would have any better luck than
i still wait to go away to school .
but they were up to the bow now and driving in one after the other and together , tearing off
” “write it afterwards .
his head and drew him out from under the stern .
what a grave error it was .
he lay quietly and stretched the stiffness from his body .
undressing , i looked at myself in the mirror of the big armoire beside the bed .
we all sat down at a table and ordered a bottle of fundador .
' they were all very different but there were some things you could co-ordinate .
” he took another sip of the absinthe and rolled it under his tongue .
, you fool !
" i want an absinthe .
that’s all very simple , he thought .
you can ' t fool those that were in hurtgen and if you lied they would know it the minute
” “we made quite good time didn’t we ?
energy crackers is the least of it .
it away .
“i hope you have a good summer .
" i shouldn ' t have gone out so far , fish , " he said .
“simplicity of action , ” george said .
; to start over .
he remembered it as in a cellar and having teakwood tables and chairs or else they sat on benches .
you get to know too many telephone numbers if you stay around in this town .
“it’s sure got a hold on them , ” he had told nick adams .
i felt so dizzy and sicklike i lost my judgment .
after breakfast jack called up his wife on the long-distance .
to be taking a bearing of this against the peaks of three far blue hills on the horizon .
we went there , still tasting coffee and kippers in the early morning heart-pounding of excitement , and the native
" " where did you hear all this ?
you’re asking for it , you know .
harris put sugar in it , crunched the lumps with his spoon , and looked out the window at the
you ain’t got an idea what it’s like when you can’t sleep .
” “run along .
getting up from behind the ant hill and turning away in disgust , walking towards his partner , who says
i could smell whatever it was clearly now , all of the time , sometimes stronger than at others .
, madame , and i’ll look for your name .
but andrea introduced me to her .
” macomber saw the lion now .
it was probably the best hotel , if you did not wish to be fawned on , or fussed over
david had to see the bull again and they came up on him at the edge of the forest .
the strange light the sun made in the water , now that the sun was higher , meant good weather
” “go on , then .
off and put it under two stones in the creek and said that he had lost it .
' i am mister dante , ' he said .
she will probably wake when we stop at the first light , he thought .
to the fiesta at pamplona .
" " kansas city .
tendalla .
patches of yellow , sun-bleached sargasso weed and the purple , formalized , iridescent , gelatinous bladder of a portuguese
girl and does not have any fear of dying .
“thank you , sir , ” said the waitress .
“you’ll be stale .
“that is the town al moegast came from , ” my father said .
” “you better go back to bed .
he was never a climber and took real punishment in the hills .
the campanile was in place and the pigeons were going to their nests for the evening .
” “you missed the skillet anyway .
it was all he would have all day and he knew that he should take it .
' i don ' t know why they ever let her into the hotel .
then , and his father would say , “they’ve run up the flag .
if not i’ll come at night when i have something to bring .
” then they sat on old men’s stools under the shade of the fig tree with the tusks against the
she was a damned nice woman too .
the sand and an old log half covered in the sand and ahead the open lake .
chapter three droopy ' s country , when we reached it that evening , after a hot ride through red-soiled
the tuna off the gaff hook and put the gaff back in place .
sell to late comers .
you cannot get pinard at the ritz .
liz sat at the table after she put on the food and ate with the family .
and now , along each side of the straight , flat , canal-bordered road they were making time on were
started the car .
sorrow ?
morning if cohn wasn ' t out of town .
we ' ll get one another time .
“did you see what happened at the table ?
” “well , i’m glad because if i was ruined morally how could i exercise a good influence on you
” “let him get sick before we follow him up .
he thought about alone in constantinople that time , having quarrelled in paris before he had gone out .
but it wasn’t true .
i was thinking of the buff the way i had seen them when we had gotten the three that time
they have a course and they tell me they set some sort of a compass and it steers itself .
we ate a lunch at jimmey handley ' s place .
setting them up on credit .
i thought there must be something wrong all the time .
ils sont des sauvages .
you know people never used to carry me on their shoulders much at home .
and driving on , holding the wheel with his left hand , driving along into the road that was dusky
it was a fine sunset and there was a nice light breeze , and when the sun got pretty well
that willie sawyer he don’t know how to have any fun at all .
did you see my nose ?
i put on a coat of cohn ' s and went out on the balcony .
you , beauty , he said to himself .
he scuffed off his canvas shoes , pulled his shirt over his head and stepped out of his trousers .
' ' will we stop early in the afternoons at the best hotel in the a .
as he stroked him to be quiet and they both watched and listened as the moon came up and gave
“but how is the movement going in italy ?
“it’s so much simpler and better .
“take it .
then he finished the cup , dipped up some cold water and drank it and went to bed .
those fellows fishing ain’t going to bother us .
arrived at the thorn fence and the hut , we broke camp fast .
" you ' ve been in the hospital .
window of the gondola and was lost and gone , neither of them said anything .
napkin and with head following the movement , swung his arms in the motion of a slow sweeping verónica .
don’t slip or make the wood fall down .
it is our dead that will help me !
dry .
" " one time a fellow comes here came to me and said he wanted me to cook them a
“i haven’t that sort of money , ” he said .
his father had frost in his beard in cold weather and in hot weather he sweated very much .
would you like me to have to operate without morphine ?
“neither do i , ” said nick .
' ' and what ' s the news from the rialto now ?
he had been on the point of feeling himself go each time .
restore his confidence .
and the funny thing is i think i was tight .
said giotto as he drew the perfect circle .
do you think they ' ll go over ?
" we walked along past the theatre and out of the square and along through the barracks of the fair
then we can walk to cipriani ' s and be famous people .
mike was unpleasant after he passed a certain point .
i ' m not going to be one of these bitches that ruins children .
” “what’s the matter with you ?
“how does it get you ?
she looks like anybody ' s mother in an illustration in _the ladies ' home journal_ , the colonel thought
it was blowing so hard that the drifting-boats would not be going out and the boy had slept late and
the car stopped .
they weren’t always right , though .
her legs drew up and she drew up from the waist and went quite rigid .
sort of dancy and tight looking with the jock keeping a tight hold on them and maybe easing off a
then you got through that and got in fine shape with tom and the kids and you knew you couldn’t
” “so do i , suzy .
” “i never was in woods like these .
jack looked up .
ida that works for strattons .
' better make it two hundred and fifty miles .
" peroxide asked , complacently .
he couldn ' t even read and write .
with the gondolier ' s wife .
he won’t infect .
" " you have a good start .
the people in the house were suspicious and the waiter had remained with guy to see nothing was stolen .
he did not rebait his hook and held it in his hand as he waded .
” “i might have , ” the man said .
" " science took it awfully well .
" " did you get good fishing ?
in a little while he came back .
the top of the hollow log was gray and dry .
" georgette asked .
“no , ” nick said .
" he adores you , " i said .
have a weight it did not have .
the boy who brought us up pulled up the curtains and brought in our bags .
he looked up from his book .
" what have you got ?
" walcott doesn ' t say anything .
we had been skiing in the silvretta for a month , and it was good to be down in the
pedro romero said he had learned a little english in gibraltar .
“this is better fun than fishing , eh doctor ?
“you know that’s one of the reasons i’d like to see sometimes , ” blindy said .
the trail , making a cast off to the right , then picking up blood once more , then pulling
where did you get it ?
you can stare , if you like .
” he said to al .
“you’re a very courteous fellow , ” george said .
" " i think so , " said harris .
" " all my life i ' ve wanted to go on a trip like that , " cohn said
when he was even with him and had the fish ' s head against the bow he could not believe
another thing was that the drinks were wonderful .
elephants , ” “a way you’ll never be , ” “the snows of kilimanjaro , ” “a clean , well-lighted
they don’t know a damn thing .
“it was very brutal .
, all of whom are his subjects .
he penetrated into the far side of the city , the side that finally fronted on the adriatic and that
“don’t you want to be friends ?
but then i did not hook the dolphin until almost sunset .
held on his own grey head .
” “because i have no papers and they say i hang around with you people and with people from the
we passed close to georgette dancing with another one of them .
his true love was sleeping again .
they didn’t come down until i was sightseeing all by myself .
the hotel to get a couple of bottles of wine to take with us .
isn ' t he an imposing lobster ?
then , later , when it got bad , it was probably using that weak carbolic solution when the other
but the bull was the same and he loved whom he loved and no one else .
she went over and sat in front of the mirror of the dressing table looking at herself with the hand
but drink was a sovereign opium of the people , oh , an excellent opium .
, machine-gunning them as they scattered and ran .
wheeler looked at her interestedly .
, a long time ago , and when they travelled through the hills in southern illinois they made these same
do you want to hear , robert ?
" " don ' t call me jake .
” “i wouldn’t know , mr .
damned interesting .
" pic him , manos , " he said .
“do let’s eat .
“are you sure ?
oh yes , that was what i was thinking about before those jerks showed ; how much money i had
, climbed down into the barrel and the boatman handed him his two guns .
” “go .
of the hotel rooms .
she liked it about his mustache .
you know this is how it works .
we can only speculate on the two war stories he abandoned , but it is probable that much of what
to fight as the fighting cocks do .
” it was going just the way he thought it would .
we arranged to meet at pamplona .
' but , by god , i feel awfully good about to-morrow .
” “we can try .
" " grand .
' ' the cornet .
and way down the street , and then i went to sleep .
of the cuadrilla leaned out over his neck and killed him with the puntillo .
when they want it you’ve got to give it to them .
you couldn ' t believe she was real when you looked at her .
' morire non a basta , ' and the colonel , then a lieutenant , had thought , ' what
“go over and say you’re sorry , ” john says into his ear .
gallop ' em , yes .
a nice looking woman asked me to sit down next to her and i did but she turned out to
“damn you .
how can i beat him ?
" " and when the chasse is gone ?
they left the pack inside the lean-to .
the river became smooth and deep and the swamp looked solid with cedar trees , their trunks close together ,
' ' would you like lobster , daughter , to start your dinner ?
compton came back more cheery than ever .
it was snow too that fell all christmas week that year up in the gauertal , that year they lived
" you looked after everything ?
i ' d be perfectly happy .
that’s what i’ve come here to see and write about .
where can we go now , at this minute , where you can kiss me ?
" " you look fine , " steinfelt says .
“they’ve painted something on it , ” she said .
but still he is not russian .
, or , from the right by mortar .
" what is it ?
so high .
for christ’s sake you’ve got bulls this afternoon .
so he did it .
' ' we won ' t be able to get into camp for the horns .
" " what does that mean ?
he threw another left hook and then turned away and walked towards the girl because he did not want to
we went all through the edge of the forest and it was full of tracks and fresh rhino sign ,
there was a row going on outside .
sack .
“you aren’t cross are you , henry ?
would ever have .
he was a member of the order .
he had vanished .
they were all waiting reasonably for the train .
' the colonel asked , placing it where he should .
" i would like a hat like that , " brett said .
i have to do some work first .
” “yes , ” she said , “under the table .
two longitudinal stripes of teal .
probably the only person in the world that did .
i was going to get you a chewing tobacco can full of knockout drops from some big saloon in some
" " you ' re looking very well yourself , " the barman said .
i ' m the first .
" hello , robert , " harvey said .
lateral vision was just a condensation of flat , low country in the winter .
i saw the sweat come out on his face like somebody had squeezed it and a big drop went down
heavy-calved , well-haired , bare leg over the other , ' you must not stay here too long .
“but he ought to get wise to himself politically .
" and besides all the animals were dead .
even his smell was froze but that wasn’t for very long and he started to put out almost as soon
of the tongue that enjoy it more .
the utter complete hell with it .
they stood together at the far end , their heads toward the gate where the bull would enter .
“when are we going to eat , bugs ?
you have your car ?
” they started off walking on the soft hemlock needles and the trees were high and there was no brush
she ' s a swell girl .
” “five ?
” “they did not go to die .
enough , the deep depression of the salt-lick was half filled with water .
t ' sun su .
“what will you drink ?
sort of tackle that slanted out of water the way she was laying on her side .
ce n’est pas bon de changer sa religion .
' ' i don ' t see what harm it can do .
" " no , " i said , " i guess you don ' t pedal it .
” roger asked the waitress .
it was not necessary to read any more .
‘you want to know ?
there weren ' t any pictures except with mr .
are you tired of it ?
he’d just take a little something and head for the railway .
” holding the cape in both hands so it would catch his eye .
both were great picadors although the first was reputed to have lost much of his ability through drink and dissipation
we ' ve re-took two .
” pancho said , pretty nasty .
drevitts and boyle drove up from the fifteenth street police station in a ford .
” “there’s plenty of girls , ” i said .
first i thought : if it had only rained , so that the ground would hold a track , we
imagine buying a copy of bouvard et pécuchet when you could get this free with your breakfast .
it isn ' t just americans , it is also me , myself , my grey hair , the slightly
" " i don ' t know , " manuel said .
“would you like button shoes ?
“that’s right , ” bill agreed .
like a grey wax caricature of himself , with grey wax hands and a grey wax face , and examined
they were talking with the old man , who , now that i looked at him standing with them ,
” “i don’t want you to do it if you feel that way .
what vegetables ?
then he started to sock .
i remember when that started and i thought perhaps it was seven-year locusts in the trees and i did not
soldier .
how many will you be ?
jealous .
harris .
' the colonel , lying under the blanket in the wind , knowing it is only what man does for
un roman , " fontan explained .
” zurito stood up .
_ _num_ st soldier_--i thought he was pretty good in there to-day .
“sure , ” said zurito .
and shoot nothing , or only to eat .
" you pay villalta seven thousand , " manuel said .
to help me and to see this .
let’s do it once more .
' none of us great shots is appreciated .
but i kept on with my prayers and i prayed very often for john in the nights and his class
would be impossible to get any sort of a close shot through the interlacing trees until you were within twenty
” kate said .
” out they came .
the day was very hot .
madrid .
” he tossed the grasshopper up into the air and watched him sail away to a charcoal stump across the
" he made me sweat , " said romero .
" what ' s yours ?
the brush and saplings on the bottom were packed hard and firm and i was sure we could cross if
" " son a bitch , " billy said .
the hell with me .
” “i’m awfully glad you did .
' no good , ' he said .
but it turned out , when the waiter came , that what she had asked me was to have a
' piga , b ' wana !
and late .
the kitchen , seemed romantically beautiful .
“ask him to come over .
maera lay with a tube in each lung , drowning with the pneumonia .
better get a load of this .
we had kept the same glasses .
as soon as it gets to strength again they’ll give you back your company .
only a sliver .
“before he goes to lay up .
" the three of us , jack brennan , soldier bartlett , and i were in handley ' s .
“no , thank you very much .
' ' how far is it ?
" " she hasn ' t any money with her ?
” “but what were they like to be with ?
shoulder for the bullet-hole and then shook hands again while the wanderobo-masai told what a man he was and i
" there was no answer from the next room .
i have none of the qualifications for the presidency .
i suppose she only wanted what she couldn ' t have .
” “i mean it .
” he twisted free .
" " are you in the university ?
again , wrapping himself in two loops of the rope .
" " come on and utilize another glass , " i said .
” “i’m too dirty to eat .
“make plenty baby what the hell .
“i couldn’t feel no worse .
of the rifle stock and laid them out on the moss .
” “then don’t tell him .
far back the fields were squares of green and brown on the hillsides .
it was still dark but along the edge of the hills it was lightening .
“he never liked soldier much .
" " they ' ve put me in it .
out , and over them were flies and around each body or group of bodies were the scattered papers .
not that .
” “the hell it’s comfortable .
" " don ' t care , " said trudy .
" i haff a tabul for two for you gentlemen , " he said .
" she turned and called some one inside .
' _gran maestro_ , ' he said .
she did not wake and he started to prepare to make breakfast and get the fire ready .
all a man need ever do is obey .
don ' t even speak of it .
' ' don ' t ever worry .
they hurt him , at the base , when he fought and he did not care at all .
the wanderobo-masai nodded , understanding perfectly , and we trailed back to where the big one lay in the edge
" the lot the duke sent me for sunday will make a scandal , " he said .
“if you can make it , there are trucks up the road where it forks for tortosa .
besides , this is la suisse romande .
you ' re dead .
he held the line against his back and watched its slant in the water and the skiff moving steadily to
sure , he thought , whenever you over-simplify you become unjust .
don’t worry about it .
” “he was a fighter .
" i wouldn ' t be surprised .
that was the way they all got killed .
" want to go for a walk ?
’ “‘it was very wrong , ’ said the priest .
from near tafalla .
sometimes they darted off .
there again .
she was lying on a clear white bank of sand and the spar was a sort of foremast or some
“all right , ” nick agreed .
bruce had worked on him a lot .
" ask him to come over and have a drink .
" we want to get to the hotel and get a doctor , " john says .
" " get that well too , " the boy said .
” it was early afternoon and the sun was out .
' ' yes , ' the colonel said .
he had forgotten how when he started to miss live birds his father would take his shirt off him and
' m ' cola like simba ?
" get some sleep , old jake .
“you can have ham and eggs , bacon and eggs , liver and bacon , or a steak .
if she gets homesick i’ll have to take her back .
they were professional hunters and he knew now that was why juma would not even waste a smile .
i can ' t respond for its accuracy of course .
“i had a couple with him , ” the porter said .
' ' what did the hand do ?
" out of the hospital , " zurito said .
y pues nada .
the water was so clear and the sand white .
jack put the left in his face .
" " what a fish it was , " the proprietor said .
didn ' t you think of that ?
” “don’t you put in any water ?
' i ' m always the last man to leave the party , fiesta i mean , not as in
“so long , bright boy , ” he said to george .
” at this moment the picador got to his feet , walked over to the priests’ table and stood ,
“to bust off that marge business , ” bill said .
then he said , ' we must wake your driver .
“say , ” he says to john .
nerves until to-day .
" " it was rather a knock his being ashamed of me .
the others follow in the order in which they were originally published .
" " no , i can ' t sleep now .
" " i am very truly sorry .
i never say chin-chin , nor here ' s to you , nor bottoms up .
they would go directly to san sebastian and take the train from there .
don ' t you think i ' m right ?
had i ever followed the tour de france ?
certainly not upton sinclair .
in the glasses it was a rhino , showing very clear and minute at the distance , red-coloured in the
, and in one of them , at a place called pocol , they buried a general who was shot
but i can ' t , he told himself .
maisons is about the swellest place to live i’ve ever seen in all my life .
listen , you ever been crazy ?
” “i’ve drunk enough .
nick looked down into the clear , brown water , colored from the pebbly bottom , and watched the trout
' ' they come from the dalmatian coast do they not ?
” asked one of the flyers .
one of them saw georgette and said : " i do declare .
” “don’t ever say that to anybody else , ” his father said .
' ' _bathi_ , ' said kayti severely to pop .
he may be a marvel .
“i couldn’t say anything with that damned suzy .
fell , he was sure there was some great strangeness and he could not believe it .
the motor-car jerked in starting , whirled on the road , and went on and away .
that ' s the way it always is , he thought .
“i’m taking this big alphabet man fishing until dark , ” captain willie shouted .
at the cross roads landscape with figures i guess everything reminds you of something great news from the mainland the
mark to venice , and he ' s their patron saint and they have a cathedral there to him .
all the hilly slopes and the edge of the forest .
” “why not stay in camp ?
or routis-ledoux , or after any other great fight where you lost your voice and were still too excited to
they felt very fine .
” “he makes me scared , nickie , worse when he’s not here than when he’s here .
" " do you find paris amusing ?
" " don ' t be nasty .
had just brought fresh bottles of valdepeñas to the tables of the auctioneer , then to the picador and ,
it was in this cave that a man whose head was broken as a flower-pot may be broken , although
he leaned back and cut the line against the wood of the gunwale .
vous n ' avez rien mangé .
' ' i hate clara dunn , ' i said .
he ' s really very generous .
weight after it .
what do you suppose he said to his mistresses when he wouldn ' t marry them ?
then he got into the boat too and they commenced their slow and laborious progress out through the ice to
only the skinner was delighted to see such a rhino head in camp .
” “how you feel now ?
" you would be much more distinguished in civilian clothes .
” “that was a good sound thing to do .
tail gone .
' ' i suppose if he must tease me he must , ' she said to the colonel .
herself , making the mouth correctly , ' don ' t think at all .
" " robert , " i said , and shook him by the shoulder .
it was getting cold and the night was clear and there was the smell of the roasting meat , the
the dark , barefoot men were moving , carrying the masts of their boats .
they had them all right .
the door , and went into the back of the hut again .
imagine if we could eat together always .
” “i’m not really .
nick took it off the grill .
“listen to me , nickie .
i ' m tired , ' he said .
he was assured and calm in the ring and out of it .
he could hear the ghee and bill swimming way out in the dark .
the hands have done their work and we sail well .
the street was full of them .
” “fear for his soul .
change over .
i said to fontan , ‘on va être malade !
, i do not know what we would be able to do .
he was a trout so big that it hardly seemed he could turn in the stream .
” “enrique , please forgive me .
“is that them , littless ?
and explain why we had gone off like this .
“sure , ” said al .
whole year with three to four against one and we won each one .
' ' never fight under me , ' the colonel said .
closer the window frames were painted green .
' ' they ball it all up , ' i agreed .
nick took the line in his left hand and pulled the trout , thumping tiredly against the current , to
then he said aloud , " i wish i had the boy .
" " i ' m not tight , " mike said .
we stood at the counter .
that had always been his first mistake , talking .
" make plenty baby what the hell .
and pop had not gone out , there was nothing for them to do and no need for them to
that ' s not his play .
the rest of it , too , the colonel thought .
“no .
' ' the old man must like them .
of the plain , and the walls of the city , and the great brown cathedral , and the broken
" he ' s getting dressed for the bull-fight .
afterwards i saw him at the café .
' he turned to look at the milan profiteers ; but they were gone .
' ' let me congratulate you anyway .
” “i’m supposed to have my pockets full of cigarettes and postal cards and such things , ” nick said
shifting the weight of the line to his left shoulder and kneeling carefully he washed his hand in the ocean
" bill stood up and took hold of cohn .
he was feeling very good since it was a completely new day .
he watched the sky lightening beyond the long point of marsh and turning in the sunken barrel , he looked
in the dark i could not see his face very well .
" " he lives on the other side of the paznaun , " said the sexton .
bertrand gave me an iron cross , first class , and i put it in the pocket of my shirt
all of me is his .
“john packard .
it was a four-leaf clover disguised as ivy .
” “summit .
last night she was , perhaps , a little-- " she put her head on one hand and rocked it
there isn’t any home .
” “vicente is my brother .
i turned to john and did not look at the table where luis delgado was sitting .
" " i suppose they get it at the source , " said bill .
“all night i lay awake and worry my can off .
dried yet , and he kissed her slowly and happily feeling the happy ache come in him where she had
she disliked such rooms .
" where ' s jack ?
“did you make some good pictures ?
and i put it in my pocket and forgot it .
' ' let ' s play , ' the colonel said .
brennan , " bruce said at the train , " i sure hope you knock his can off .
" " and the leg ?
a smack when someone hit the flit gun man on the mouth .
can’t you hear it ?
now everything is cleared away that might make trouble and i have a big reserve of line ; all that
" give me three hundred , retana .
" " you make me very happy , my dear .
scent would keep everything moving out of the way ahead of us as long as anything could move .
you drink to us when we’re gone .
it looked deep though .
we stayed five days at burguete and had good fishing .
and make his hands go round and round to show how the bird turned over in the air .
' i ' d be ashamed to .
of the dugout .
that will be a pleasant meal .
until she cracked .
wife .
” he broke two eggs on the side of a frying pan .
" " do you remember when he used to come to the terrace ?
he never showed his father the second story .
” “for how much ?
in order that there would be no more self-inflicted wounds , and that all others would be punished in the
” “it looks nice .
“i’ll wait till tonight .
" that ' s a hell of a hike .
' the boatman said nothing but commenced to smash at the jagged perimeter of ice with his oar .
he was up at once , but far out across the sand manuel and zurito saw the shine of the
the blade cut the hair off close to his finger and thumb .
" i ' ll kill her , " he said .
the two boys had a tommie slung and they were coming along behind her .
manuel laughed .
" " where were you drinking ?
they’ve put it back to five-twenty .
but what he said was , “i don’t know , daughter .
his life , but never alone .
" i am not religious , " he said .
“the policeman says that we are not in chicago but in hailey , montana .
“won’t you please do it ?
and they had given him to me for an orderly because he spoke english .
” “there was a cat , ” said the american girl .
altogether there had only been these two in the twenty years .
taken enough mannitol hexanitrate to , well he did not quite know what to--to pass , he said to himself
by god , i knew he had taken a big one .
” the wind was back in the south on thursday .
i thought the eyes would come out of jack ' s head .
would you like me to read to you ?
dirty bastards !
brett ' s door was open .
" i just want to get my money ' s worth .
he knew all about bulls .
anywhere , just to get them out of the country .
would not scorch them .
' what there is of it .
just then from the other room some one called : " barnes !
" " just got in to-day from budapest .
“jerry , ” says jack , “you can’t have an idea what it gets to be like .
' i haven ' t eaten anything since day before yesterday .
" do you think it ' s true ?
“have you a gun aboard ?
he drew out the sword from the folds of the muleta and sighted with the same movement and called to
i walked out beyond the town to look at the weather .
he was not smiling now .
where , now , lights shone from all the windows .
in the center of the wood lot four hemlock trees grew close together .
she was looking into my eyes with that way she had of looking that made you wonder whether she really
you can hit him wherever you want at that .
so that they would come automatically .
but anyway if i do four as good as i can do and as straight as god could do them
it was a different kind of looking country than michigan .
cut it out and be a human being when you ' re half a hundred years old .
he is my brother .
she certainly had a nice voice .
coasted lightly over .
strip of the timber .
i was ready to stop and make camp anywhere .
” nick said , “all right .
how are you , you worthless old pig fucker ?
“don’t look now .
rather than an attacking bathroom , the colonel felt .
' ' only three times .
bathrooms at the time of building , and , later , when they were introduced , they had been built
' asked m ' cola .
typewritten page in a sheaf of typewritten pages which he replaced in his pocket .
game very distinctly .
he had resisted this as he had resisted writing that the palm branches blew forward making a line against the
” “just one more courteous action .
' m ' cola could grin again now and the smile moved the chinese hairs at the corner of his
' i see her in the street with the lovely long-legged stride and the wind doing anything it wants to
“what does she say ?
“shut up !
, then came back to us .
behind them a sort of gully ran up into the hill that blocked the end of the valley .
yellow , the road was dusty with cars passing , and all the small wooden houses at the edge of
' but it ' s impossible to hunt them .
he had committed himself to writing three “very long” stories to round out the collection (two dealing with battles in
nick raised the rifle and the grouse looked at him .
" if you want something extra , " retana said , " go and get it .
does that seem the way to hunt kudu to you ?
" the gentleman took out a card from the pocketbook and gave it to harris .
“sure , ” jack says , “i’ll sleep now .
' ' i want to learn american so much .
" don ' t you remember ?
_ _num_ st soldier_--have a drink of it yourself .
the spanish children were beautiful .
he was right , too , although in obtaining his exact knowledge he had not fulfilled the complete spirit of
the other yellow .
” “we can go everywhere .
” “he is a card-player .
so harry crossed last night .
if i can’t have long hair or any fun , i can have a cat .
" " oh , no .
and swam , trying to keep in the trough and not have a wave break over me .
i sat on the back porch and looked through the screen and the leaves of the tree at the heat
cloth so that the sword , now held in his left hand , spread the red flannel like the jib
' i ' m cheerful .
” “that wasn’t in the lines .
there was the bull standing , heavy , firmly planted .
" al asked his friend .
“no , ” his sister said .
please don’t worry , daughter .
they only felt from the distances that it was there .
manuel stood up and picked up the muleta .
you must be broken and worn out by waiting .
" " do you want to come up and hear the game this afternoon ?
we call ’em the white eskimos now .
give us another anecdote .
you can’t just take to that stuff , billy .
when they came toward him with the cap to go over his head sam cardinella lost control of his sphincter
" " no , " said the big one .
, and the bull lifted him and then dropped him .
they were playing the gramophone and it was full of smoke and there was a crap game going on the
all you comrades have to do is listen .
“prunes taste like a celebration , ” littless said .
" " always , " said the count .
" i did not care .
renata ' s two years older now .
take it easy .
cohn ?
the prisoner suddenly at the side of the head .
" " we have to go into pamplona .
very well , as long as either of us is alive and after .
does this bore you ?
mr .
" between fishermen .
what would you like from that window ?
' in his tent , i think .
mirrors , and then , with the boy ' s aid , hoisted her aboard , the male fish had
“if you aren’t in with him , you might just as well go out and shoot yourself .
’ but she said , ‘no , it isn’t any good to be catholique in america .
" " i think they would .
i won ' t take more of your time .
her palazzo was pleasant looking , set well back from the canal with a garden in front and a landing
everybody with free arms swinging , and behind rode the picadors , their pics rising like lances .
contract with , a publisher .
he had a bottle of water in the bow of the skiff and that was all he needed for the
joe and have a drink in the bar at the roubidoux , maybe two drinks and then we will cross
i found i could only remember back to that attic in my grandfather’s house .
there were two of them , good-looking , well built , and shy , but interested .
" you motherless bitch , " i said to him and told him what he could do with the money
_ _num_ st roman soldier_--we ' ll have one more round .
the café girls--and i believe they are still patriotic .
“when a buff comes he comes with his head high and thrust straight out .
lion went into a gallop and was in the tall grass before he had the bolt pushed forward .
” and i’d look back and he’d be sitting under a tree with a towel he’d had around his waist
, and jack sort of lifted his shoulder sharp and caught him against the nose , and then brought down
“in the thigh , i think .
all the cells were occupied .
" " oh , cut it out , mike , " cohn said .
but i will try it as long as i have the oars and the short club and the tiller .
the slant of the line showed he was swimming at a lesser depth .
” “celadas .
hapana , simba !
he talked spanish quite well , and the innkeeper would not take our money .
in the night and one big bull track , long , narrow , heart-shaped ; clearly , deeply cut .
well naturally one never knows .
the colonel saw that while they had been joking , he had not watched the door and he was annoyed
are you here ?
' ' how many have you killed ?
we had been up since before it was light and now it was almost half past eight .
" " couldn ' t we live together , brett ?
“i wouldn’t miss something like today for anything .
" he can not hear , " the major said .
i could smell the heat of the day coming , the drying up of the dew , the heat on
" he said it , " alice said and smiled .
" " there ' s some in there .
left , and i tell you i felt pretty good steering , and it was a pretty night to cross
wonderful-looking horn .
” nick did not watch .
" " you can ' t tell about the weather , " jack says .
_ _num_ d soldier_--it isn ' t that that ' s so bad , as when they first lift '
huts where the roman and his family lived .
" they put us out in the kitchen , " nick went on .
“there’s a breeze coming up .
" we went down the stairs and out of the door and walked across the square toward the café iruña
i hope she ' s resting well .
' up above , it had plenty of water then , before all these hydro-electric projects .
” hogan asked .
threaded the line through the guides .
" how do you feel , jack ?
inside the room was in great disorder .
a sou to go away and leave him .
" george looked up at the clock .
once when we were stuck and i was shovelling and he was stooping over in a frenzy of advice and
frazer and on the doctor .
henry j .
then we’ll get the stuff , ” nick said .
i ' ve had hell ' s own amount of credit on mine .
" no , sir , " said the barman .
” “some day .
she lay there , the blankets pulled over her head .
" i pressed up the wire fastener and poured it for him .
' he was so tall he could see into the now almost dark street , but this was a girl
it seemed the antithesis of healing or whatever people were in the hospital for , and every one thought it
diana manners playing the nun in max reinhardt ' s ' the miracle ' .
we unpacked our leather coats and our raincoats and spread them on the grass at the foot of the trees
“i am without politics , ” he said .
he was stiff and sore now and his wounds and all of the strained parts of his body hurt with
“besides you made another mistake , ” captain willie went on .
he came in , furious for some reason , no kudu possibly , pale , and gaunt looking and speaking
' ' i wonder why the portrait has not come .
of course he has a morbid fear of electric shock that’s completely unjustified and that’s why i use the sodium
all that winter , with a bad sore throat , he had killed men who came , wearing the stick
“you ought to quit it , manolo .
you should read history .
” “i’ll get my speed back .
i’ve tried keeping away from it .
” “the hell with you , ” doctor wilcox said .
trees and all blown out and a channel cut through and all the water white as chalk and everything on
” at the conclusion of a closely turned pass of the cape the bull slid to his knees .
they can’t size up what’s happening .
a boy about fourteen came out from the estaminet and asked for the new bicycle .
' ' please tell me , ' the girl said .
" " been working for the common good ?
i don ' t think it is .
the day ' s fatigue helped make the decision easy .
” “you party-boat captains always have the same line .
' there ' s no real crime here now , ' the night porter said .
' ' then i suppose i should go home .
the girl was still sleeping and they were coming up the hill into tallahassee .
wasn ' t that bright ?
at the fishing tackle in the first showcases on the left .
what will you do now if they come in the night ?
' not really ?
“his own father shot and killed him .
no work at all .
we ' ve been looking forward to this fishing all winter .
the table was there , washed bright green in the rain , but the cat was gone .
or is it more ?
” “we’ll go see him .
” “castrated ?
to the cemetery , where they buried him in the tomb next to joselito .
the sun was shining in a thinning of the forest , and below us , under the edge of the
nick said nothing .
" " no , i ' m not .
i ' m not ashamed of it .
the wind blew hard from the east and the ground was broken in short ridges of hills coming down close
“you take the corner one , ” roger had said .
all through the day i had never thought once of the kudu .
' ' you are also damn sagacious .
” “once in a while .
he leaned all his weight against the wood of the bow .
" oh , my god !
they were running too , at the pace of a fast miler , and carrying their spears as well .
garner .
' ' will our cars climb them properly ?
you _know_ i ' m delighted he has it .
he’s framed right .
, like a fat , plum-coloured , masai donkey with marvellous long , black , straight , back-slanting horns that
eat it all .
” “all i tried to do was see if you wanted a girl and not to talk too wet about
” “it isn’t done .
you don ' t like to wear your dress uniform , do you ?
one was a bank statement .
i can’t .
" but , yes , " said the porter .
manuel could not hear it .
while we drive .
wake me .
manuel sat down at one of the tables .
" i said i was a different man , james , " he said .
' all right .
the luarca was luxury for the picadors and the banderilleros who , with their families in seville , required lodging
he hoped he had .
' ' i ' ll get you the god-damned jeep complete with handles , ' the colonel said .
" " he can ' t hit you , jack , " soldier said .
the male might have been wounded , the colonel thought , although , from his looks , it seems unlikely
he covered the mouth of the phone with his hand and said , ' i am talking to ettore .
then , ' the colonel said .
but these trees had a great spread of branches and were in leaf and below them , in the stream
i ' m different , " he said .
the liver was delicious .
“hey wesley , ” he said , looking back into the cockpit where the nigger lay with the blanket over
sent a man around .
it had just gotten going that way .
i wish the hell i was there .
he probably wouldn’t do it .
he ' d been knocked down about fifteen times , and he wanted to fight some more .
he had tried him , wheeling him in the corrals and he responded to the bit and the spurs .
” asked the innkeeper .
i was so damned sure .
she had made by rolling her blue jeans around her moccasins .
stride at a time , leaning forward against the grade and the altitude , dead tired and gun weary ,
the concierge was light , fast , sharp-faced , intelligent and polite , always , without subservience .
the rifle was under his left leg and his head was on the good hard pillow his moccasins and the
the unnatural high mountain spring , into this may morning in the valley .
" " i ' ve had plenty to worry about one time or other .
he sailed lightly now and he had no thoughts nor any feelings of any kind .
“you hungry , boy ?
" little white lies .
the gravel was too wet .
so i like it , because it ' s my country .
memphis is only tough if you are a negro .
he made the old man here talk too .
and then he’d get started talking about things .
” that night the mexicans played the accordion and other instruments in the ward and it was cheerful and the
' and please attack gently and with the same attack as before .
do you want a bag to carry them in ?
i don’t want to lose my arm and the boat both .
a few fool ducks might come in .
the wind was high up and took the clouds across the moon .
he remembered how it had been that summer .
“don’t you worry about him none , mister adams .
with miles of sparse bush , a little thicker than orchard bush , between , and ahead a pair of
maples were turned and there were lots of scrub oaks that had fine colored leaves too and when there was
this matador had an intelligent , very open face and he carried himself with much style .
you can always tell him because he has his collar on backwards .
the road was high along the shore of the lake .
cornelia was pure too .
we shall see .
they are the damnedest women .
” “he stays up because he likes it .
" " never mention that , " bill said .
” he pointed to a comer table .
' i am off for harry ' s .
it was no great thing , he thought .
” “well , ” i said , “so long , soldier .
' ' please do not be rough .
“come on out , you !
" oh !
” “bring us the bill , ” i said .
i suppose it really looked just the same as the country where we lived but it did not feel the
” “maybe we ought to eat first .
jumps and that head out—but it was while they were neck and neck that they passed the winning post and
" " i ' m awfully glad .
” walcott stepped off and grinned at jack .
' should we go , daughter ?
i can’t sleep without a light of some sort .
" ils sont des sauvages , les boys , vous savez .
” so i had a look at her and just then she died and went absolutely stiff .
i never walked in it that it wasn ' t fun .
chapter _num_ in the morning it was raining .
i am not lucky anymore .
they stopped and he looked at them both in the face and smiled his old and worn death smile .
and gouging and biting and i see one of blackie’s eyes hanging down on his cheek .
by now there was no more road , only a cattle track , but we were coming to the edge
” “have you seen the number with the colored plates of the north american fauna ?
“that was nice , bright boy , ” max said .
” “if we can get past ventimiglia .
cat in the rain there were only two americans stopping at the hotel .
“i’ll tell you what they were like .
they give you a stuffed dog .
" " oh , yes , " i said .
" fish , you are going to have to die anyway .
he had the gun over his shoulder and he held a black squirrel by the front paws .
been an r .
” he said to frankie .
“get up forward , ” i said to eddy .
with another .
a saint .
we watched her cross the street .
but it will be just exactly as good as i can make it .
he ' ll weigh ten pounds .
flask and poured some in a cup and i added water from the canteen and sat drinking and looking in
he advanced smiling , lovingly and yet conspiratorially , since they both shared many secrets and he extended his hand
were either of you gentlemen in the war by any chance ?
” the canary chirped and the feathers on his throats stood out , then he dropped his bill and pecked
maybe if you found out how to live in it you learned from that what it was all about .
each jerk widens the cut the hook makes and then when he does jump he might throw it .
” “neither do i , ” said harris , “i don’t agree with david belasco .
” he took out the bottle .
” “night before battle , ” “nobody ever dies , ” and “landscape with figures , ” which is published
” “i regret it , ” i said .
the party .
" the cook looked away from him holding his lips tight together .
missing him they were just hitting him .
" " this is going to give me pleasure , " bill said .
then he’d started to cry .
" with my true , wonderful memories .
i could feel cohn wanted to bring up brett again , but i held him off it .
' ' the hell with them , ' i said .
they came to the end of one cut field of grain and crossed the little sunken creek that ran down
there were four big beech logs lying almost buried in the sand .
he would take the rifle and lay it down on the top of the log and pull his sister up
slate , that was doubtless one of the " quaint " features , paid it , shook hands , and
i saw madrid come up over the plain , a compact white sky-line on the top of a little cliff
" he ' s coming up , " he said .
of the window and he tried not to feel her head and her lovely face the way a blind man
” “i heard you call him harry .
the glory of office that had been hers when she had helped out in the store , mr .
" from the crowd .
' ' i ' ve suggested it .
they were snow-bound a week in the madlener-haus that time in the blizzard playing cards in the smoke by the
back corner of the lot .
was limping , and in sudden whispered family bitterness there was a highly-righteous-on-both-sides clash , historically on unwearable shoes and
play in the sand .
” “i never even thought about it .
nick was glad to get to the river .
i shot again at the bull and threw dirt all over him and they were off .
she ' s just a lovely , healthy wench .
he picked up the two cant-hooks .
” “we will come one night with music ?
then he said , “i’m sorry , littless .
toward us , throwing the water high each time he landed .
do you want to play historical personages ?
“no , ” said wilson .
it is a little tight in the collar but soon you will see untold millions wearing this uniform swarming like
“we don’t have to go to the movies do we ?
” hogan was counting for them .
could and drove it down with all his strength , and more strength he had just summoned , into the
that was when we’d have the most fun .
that and i’ll bet there would be plenty of trouble , too , let alone mess .
and then the air is full of them , and you cut down two , then two again , and
” “where do i walk to ?
“good night , men , ” bill whispered .
_num_ d soldier—i can’t drink the damn stuff .
to the dance .
i would have brought some .
' ' shooting .
" they certainly tried a nice double-cross , " john said .
he had forgotten to get water for the coffee .
” fontan shook his head .
there was a number twelve and a number five showing .
they ate at a lunch counter in a town in the middle of the florida prairie .
” “très peu .
“how little a woman knows .
' the calf , ' pop said .
“maybe i can fix it up on buffalo , ” he said .
” this officer made him very nervous .
after crossing the creek he cut across a field , skirted the edge of the orchard , keeping to the
then he rolled and hung onto that arm and started to cry and i said : " what the hell
" it ' s such a fine old hotel , " said the american lady .
“it’s not very pleasant to have your wife see you do something like that .
" ' " but i went as a patriot , " i say , very foolishly .
pivoted weight of his body .
" you like me ?
they were dull and they were repetitious .
how surprised i was the first time i saw him with the tunic off and noticed how old his upper
" speak grammatically !
” “he’s just here for a rest , ” the secretary explained .
" " what awful lust ?
he went down the stairs and out of the door into the hot brightness of the street .
" it isn ' t chic , but the food is all right .
yards .
he found plenty of good grasshoppers .
“you understand ?
this was signed by so and so , professional hunter .
down below the water showed black between the slits of ties .
on a boat , or people who had suffered some heavy financial loss .
" " it is strange , " the old man said .
" you like to eat , don ' t you ?
it is hard on the right hand .
marat , a _num_ meter steeplechase .
no , he said .
' ' i will be nineteen .
“they know about everything , nickie , ” his sister said hopelessly .
the menu was written in ink on a card and the card slipped into a wooden paddle .
don’t just encourage me .
it ' s going to be light .
used for anchoring whenever we fished bottom fishing on patches or rocky bottom where you wouldn’t want to risk an
do you think you can find an eighty-five ?
" what are _you_ looking at ?
he spilled the coffee out of the pot and shook the grounds loose into the fire .
please , no .
” “one understands the action of our brother basilio .
“il y a trop de churches .
george looked up and saw the back of her neck , clipped close like a boy’s .
then i let her drift down .
” “good” he said .
i got my rod that was leaning against the tree , took the bait-can and landing-net , and walked out
enrique looked for it against the wall but did not find it .
“no hay derecho , ” he said .
” he took a drink and showed his hand .
" " what ' ll we do to-night ?
his head .
wabash they had studied at the university of dijon down in the côte d’or .
' piga , ' m ' cola said .
bring me the basin to wash my hands .
let ' s go over to the iruña and start , " i said .
" " what rotten luck for me .
the cockpit came open and it was just like looking into a blast furnace , and then they started to
was walking softly ahead watching droopy ' s back and remembering to keep the sweat out of my glasses when
" " he ' s got plenty .
" he stopped for us to laugh .
” “i felt my shoes full of it .
, no .
then you will pin him on and we will go to have a drink at harry ' s and see
" she went out to put the birds away where it was cooler .
" i disjointed my rod and bill ' s and packed them in the rod-case .
” we went along a side road that cut up over the hill and cut across the fields back to
" but it gives you the idea .
' ' and when you know what the hell have you got ?
" you know english well .
the word ' _simba_ ' .
' that one ' s a cow .
" his father sat down in a chair beside the oilcloth-covered table .
felt it go out of me and go off and then come back .
he loved the taste and the feel of whiskey .
they felt as though they were married , but they wanted every one to know about it , and to
his big whip and the jocks fiddling them around and then the barrier snapping up and that bell going off
" i have a date .
you go on and tell it , " he said to the sexton .
m ' cola said , ' shenzi !
“but my boy is a communist .
” al said .
” “i think they’ve been killed off a long time , ” he said .
now , as he rode along the highway in the car and it was getting dark , nick was all
they had gone on and suddenly nick had raised the rifle and shot before his sister could see what he
" isn ' t that the procession ?
the bottle was about empty .
" " in love--with a girl ?
it was like a baseball catcher pulls the ball and takes some of the shock off .
” “i am not married , ” cayetano said .
" " see you then .
and two biscuits .
buffalo got bigger and bigger until he could see the gray , hairless , scabby look of one huge bull
' also any particular planet that you wish to be and i will give you an accurate location of the
" " thank you very much , " said the doctor waving a forceps in the air .
” “what made you think i was going to give you any pep talk ?
i’ve got no right to tell you that .
“we’re wasting time in here .
this is the supreme secret .
that meant he was shot clean through .
man shakes when his malaria hits him .
” “i’ve been away a long time , ” harris said .
when nick came home from fishing without it and said he lost it he was whipped for lying .
" bill took a long drink .
he sat smoking and watching the river .
wait till you see where we ' re going after we leave venice .
thin , quick prickle across the scalp that was as definite a reaction to danger as a bird dog stiffening
putting your hands together , and sunk a foot deep in the loam of the forest floor , where some
" " ask him about vienna .
" she looked at me , her hand on the table , her glass raised .
and if you don ' t you are stupid , the colonel thought .
the wound was not serious .
just then the woman cried out .
i had very nearly shot .
“i was a little angry .
” the girl brought the menu .
it was a bowl of pickled pig’s feet and there was a wooden thing that worked like a scissors ,
close below us we saw romero ' s lips were puffed , both eyes were discolored .
" " better than you eat in liège .
between _num_ and _num_ hemingway made several trips to switzerland to gather material for the toronto star .
” “only two , ” the negro said in a quiet voice .
written .
why don’t you pay me the money you owe me so i can leave ?
the old man looked ahead of him but he could see no sails nor could he see the hull nor
it looks like rain .
she did not hear them .
” “what did she say about the boy ?
i swam slowly , it seemed like a long swim with the high tide , and then pulled up on
" he went away and came back with the long-handled coffee and milk pots .
" " his mother dead , " trudy said .
' m ' cola told me , ' pop said from his chair by the fire .
” “certainly not the individual bull and the individual priest , ” said the second waiter .
“i got something for you .
cold ones out of the ice box with frankie .
she ' s tired of there not being trees in venice .
through the glasses you could see two men get out of an angle of the trench and start up a
” “i enjoyed very much , too , the wild animal photographs of george shiras three .
don’ you uderstand ?
several women were nice to him in new york , and when he came back he was quite changed .
' ' about twenty miles .
” he called to the gun-bearers , who came up wiping their hands , and the older one got into
do you put them in the bottle ?
he had meant to have a great afternoon , and instead it was an afternoon of sneers , shouted insults
every day he tells somebody what to do .
except jake here .
" " wonderful nigger .
at a big garage just around the corner from the municipal theatre for four hundred francs .
after a while we heard the train-whistle way off below on the other side of the plateau , and then
it possible to cast a fly which has no weight .
” the boy did not know that it was me who had done it to him and so he had
maybe i’ll have to operate on this lady .
' i whispered .
i ought to put in forty gallons anyway .
' ' have you got soap ?
" two other people had been in the lunch-room .
" i slept all right , " jack said .
it may not work out but i like the plot .
it was not the easy grin of the confident , nor the quick slashing smile of the extremely durable and
" you think so ?
“your heart is a book .
we have both taken many .
“why do we have to go ?
on his feet .
he felt warm and sticky from the bleeding .
and they conceded .
” “no , ” said the man .
” they jogged easily along the pleasant firm footing above the breaking waves .
“listen , ” i said to eddy .
and wondering where the kidneys were .
doesn’t it make you feel good ?
we had to get a tank up to put fire on the window before we could rush the last gun
but monsieur can remember them surely .
“plenty big business .
food had an excellent place in the count ' s values .
you can tell them about the portrait .
“he’s got grub and he must have his rifle .
" " you don ' t have to do that .
better shooting .
" no , " said trudy .
yes , the wife .
” “let’s wait .
i ' m like a cat .
jack’s body .
i doubt if you could miss it .
' ' she still runs , ' the boatman said .
books .
but then he stopped thinking and he did not think for a long time .
if i hadn ' t been boxing i would have drunk quite a lot .
i mean really .
” but the other bull was moving steadily at the same gallop and he missed , throwing a spout of
cave and ducked inside .
' you wait back there .
" he ' s out in front in the office .
' ' that looks like one coming up , from the hedges , ' the driver said .
i want to be out before it is light .
“there’s nothing really can touch skiing , is there ?
' the girl asked , and swung her head back and stood there with the black sweater of the portrait
" " he is a card-player .
' ' do you think they would have done grappa , pasubio and the basso piave as we did ?
he urinated outside the shack and then went up the road to wake the boy .
" " guess so .
” “oh , hell !
” “it’s a hell of a nuisance once they’ve had you certified as nutty , ” nick said .
so nickie wouldn’t kill him .
then he closed the book and put it back in his pocket .
they were all feeling pretty good when they left .
york bar .
“it isn’t hard .
maybe i am .
hearing and seeing the birds and feeling and smelling the breeze that still blew in from the gulf of mexico
i brought my wet things and my boots to the fire and kamau spread them on sticks , and put
it was scheduled to leave at two o ' clock .
" he is , you know .
" i ' ll put you in a nocturnal if you want , " retana offered .
everyone they met walking through the main street of the town peduzzi greeted elaborately .
no borden’s canned cream .
the surface , and they would hit a man in the water , if they were hungry , even if
i could be lots of use and you’d be lonely without me .
i can stay away another week .
then , looking at the watch , in that quiet tone , that valuable quiet tone , “savoia .
" " you don ' t remember him , " brett said .
and they were coming out of her , out through the blast furnace door , dropping out trying to get
' ' we ' ll go to sheridan first and then decide .
" " i ' d better go up the street , " the motorman said .
beating silkily against both his cheeks .
my typewriter and a comrade would reach up , cut himself a slice of ham with his pocket knife ,
he was very careful to drain his fingers on the edge of the saucer so there was only a film
” “no .
you won’t mind if i get restless and mix it up with being lonesome ?
his mind was starting to work .
they spent the night of the day they were married in a boston hotel .
” the two of them went out the door .
bull as he moved away , hearing the bullets whunk into him , emptying his rifle at him as he
writing wonderfully .
you ' re not old enough to know about it .
” “why doesn’t he get a divorce ?
zurito saw him go by , smiling , pointing at his vest .
“do you speak other languages besides english ?
perhaps i will see you to-morrow .
then you backslid and ran with those worthless people , not quite as worthless as the other batch , but
about riding down in egypt , or at st .
” “what’s become of your mate ?
they were in two bunches , one straight ahead and to the left towards where the sun would rise and
' ' worse , if possible .
' ' you can ' t tell , ' pop said .
" " nous avons pêché sérieusement .
“they were going to shoot him when he came in to eat .
someone tackled her heavily and she went down .
tell me , please .
floating belly up in some pool .
night before battle at this time we were working in a shell-smashed house that overlooked the casa del campo in
and i will tell you , now , a military secret .
” “thank you very much , ” i said .
there wasn ' t enough shooting to be enough feathers to do that boy ' s wife any good with
the dying is an accident .
" four reales .
in the back room brett and bill were sitting on barrels surrounded by the dancers .
under the double green fly of the dining tent pretending that nothing had happened .
still feeling much too good to appreciate any one else ' s gloom , and pop and i sat ,
“he’s a hell of a fine lion , ” wilson said cheerfully .
those at toussus le noble and at le buc .
“we’ve got to , ” said nick .
respectability , since decorum and dignity rank above courage as the virtues most highly prized in spain , and bullfighters
” “i was thinking all the time , comrade .
” “we’ll do it very carefully , ” he said .
" i know it , " manuel said .
toro !
' come on , cheer up , you bastard , ' i said .
as well as any son of a bitch that ever lived .
day’s walking .
he thought a little about the company that he would like to have .
i took half a dozen exposures and used the cinema while they all dragged the kudu to where there seemed
some money , so i prayed that i would make a lot of money , and then i started to
the innkeeper sat on the porch of the inn , his chair tipped back against the wall .
” just then the waiter came over .
” “you will be when you see the knives come .
” “like a bloody politician , ” nick said .
there were ducks laid out on the ground in rows .
he smoothed out the sandy soil with his hand and pulled all the sweet fern bushes by their roots .
through his esses , or sometimes his gs .
” “lonely , ” roger said .
com contents foreword publisher’s preface part i “the first forty-nine” preface to “the first forty-nine” the short happy life of
dust with the rope going cloppetty , cloppetty , clop , clop , clop , and the sun hotter ,
' good trip .
" it is my country , " she said .
" we better have some more beer , " john said .
" it was only his turn , " he said .
i support that boy , but i don ' t want to have him around .
“go on to the infirmary , man , ” he said .
' re really souped up on nitroglycerin .
his horns had passed , to give a faked look of danger .
full-bodied .
she wore a handkerchief over her head .
i sat on my stool at the lunch counter and watched the four of them eating together .
" " on dit que schmidt est catholique , " fontan said .
we got out from the crowd .
everyone must wait .
but i wish to christ he hadn ' t ever got it .
came crawling on , as conspicuous as a man walking down a city street on hands and knees .
i am an only child so i have many duties .
he could not remember which way he made coffee .
then his cheek went down against the comb , his left hand was far forward , his weight was forward
you wouldn ' t do such a thing now , would you ?
some in berlin .
rotten poetry .
the old man hit him on the head for kindness and kicked him , his body still shuddering , under
abandoned it and let the song go back to football .
it up .
i could feel the comfortable lack of faith coming over me too .
the pitti ?
, that you knew .
” “they just took him down the road in one way or another all the time .
“look , paco .
i was making it up again today in the car .
' ' where is the grand master ?
we ' ll have to go like hell to get there and back and have any fishing at all .
” “you mean they don’t want to see us until a half an hour ?
in the early days , before we became good friends , he did not trust me at all .
covered by the patch , and his white face , as white as the belly of a sole , new
that’s a way to talk .
“who are the comrades shooting craps ?
' ' i ' d love to if andrea isn ' t angry .
' he says it is his property .
he says there’s only been one greater elephant and he came from near here too .
" " it ' s not worth it , " i said .
” this fellow johnson that had her chartered asked me .
a breeze started to blow , and you could feel that the air came from the sea .
swimming on the stream and circling on the surface as the current took them and then disappear as a trout
it can come from unboiled water ; an un-pulled-up mosquito boot , or it can come with the great ,
we were sun-burned and our lips blistered from the sun and alkali dust .
i wonder if he has any plans or if he is just as desperate as i am ?
then i met him .
they had whistled at her and , the colonel thought , that was a harmless enough thing and he should
bars so a man can tell when he is drinking too much and decided that he did not like what
“that does it , ” said wilson .
" " i guess so .
they were making the turn at the upper end of the park .
he swung the door open and together they stepped out the door and were clear of the building .
he wants the title .
there was a great noise going on .
she liked his dignity .
and wondering why they never were mentioned in the bible .
mountains in a mist .
she ' s always rather good .
brett went up-stairs .
he offered it to me yesterday , david thought , and i’m in better shape today than i was then
we drove out along the coast road .
he ' s through .
” “it can carry two hundred and sixty-five cases without being loaded .
that means that the enemy will get at least one prisoner which makes all the taking off of the divisional
they found there was nothing to do in dijon .
' ' i ' m very glad , ' she said .
" nada , " some one said .
” his mother went on crying .
“i shouldn’t take you .
garrick and abdullah pulled him down .
" he said jota for j .
he fell .
gosh , i was so excited , i was afraid to look at them , but i fixed the glasses
we had shot .
' do they really have energy crackers ?
" they ' re savages .
but these poisonings from the agua mala came quickly and struck like a whiplash .
i kill plenty of great horned owls and a great homed owl will kill a partridge every day if he
woman should always have more money than the last one ?
" " i would be glad to buy some beer if there is good beer .
“put out any time you want , ” i told johnson .
that disposed of the opportunities for social life and i looked up kidneys and the roman ' s brother produced
” the old man looked from his glass across the square , then over at the waiters .
thank you very much , ' he said .
you don ' t have to tell me and i know now it is not good for you .
now he leaned back , calling to him .
dead white above that .
“take your time .
" " leave me with my memories , " peroxide said .
you ' re sure he doesn ' t support you by tracking and wing shooting ?
when they operated on him she prepared him for the operating table ; and they had a joke about friend
“i love you very much and i’m going to try to be very good to you .
“only the paper .
left of the room as you go in , the flit gun man struggling wildly now , and when the
” “yes , if he’s in .
up with the bottle !
" when do i work ?
there is romance everywhere .
' ' you , ' she said .
and stretcher-bearers , threw a leg over the saddle and roared on over the ridge , his machine churning a
nor to the characters from shaef we never saw in those woods .
” my knee did not bend and the leg dropped straight from the knee to the ankle without a calf
he saw the blackjack on the grass and picked it up .
“i understand , ” i said to the waiter .
it or american shoals .
since the gangrene started in his right leg he had no pain and with the pain the horror had gone
i am a manager for this indian .
i’m so very sleepy .
" " tell me what they were doing .
cabinet , but the fellows said no , they were all right right there at the table .
we were returning to paris to set up separate residences .
he did .
upstairs the matador who was ill was lying face down on his bed alone .
hogan went out .
i couldn ' t take his money , you know .
“they’ll be nicer when they don’t have flit on them .
twice , though , he had felt faint and dizzy and that had worried him .
while in the sky a dozen more sailed , making quick-moving shadows as they passed .
we might even draw a good one .
“i’ll get a chunk from the back porch , ” nick said .
far off to the left was the line of the river .
in the sun against a stone wall by the sea of galilee eating some lunch and drinking a bottle of
out ?
“you don’t believe i love you , do you ?
we went forward very slowly , looking into and trying to see through the senseviera .
' ' plus the fact that they were restricted to religious subjects .
” “but the st .
we were cooking the evening meal and they brought him up .
" but tell him that i feel very sick and would prefer not to talk so much .
it ' s all wrong .
“we make a new joke tomorrow , ” he said .
i’m not charging you for the line .
she was very afraid of something .
” “if i saw you for the first time everything would turn over inside of me and i’d ache right
turned a little on her side and looking at me straight in front .
" " he couldn ' t hit you with a handful of bird-shot .
' ' if you go in for that kind of thing .
about grasshoppers .
he ' s not a beet worker .
capes far down the coast .
” “you bitch , ” he said .
they wear their shoes too tight and when you take the shoes off them you see their hammer-toes .
“let me buy the wine , ” the sexton said .
“you went up and put your hands on his face once .
” “can we really do it all that fast ?
it was considered a virtue not to talk unnecessarily at sea and the old man had always considered it so
no talk english very good .
i kept the stuff in the dining room and it was all gone .
he came to the hospital in milan to see me several months after and was very disappointed that i had
and i’m sure i’ve read it too .
" well , " said bill .
' ' let me feel your hand , ' she said .
he could not enjoy reading until it was done .
' you see , during the war they sent the indian troops to fight here .
' would you mind , daughter ?
" how much do we owe you ?
that ' s because i never could slide at all .
' ' the mirror bores me , ' she said .
they tried as often as mrs .
by mistake .
they didn’t leave the next morning .
i don’t like to drive this coast at night .
" we got up from the table--they had never brought us a drink--and started across the street toward the select
was in the sun .
the doctor and the doctor’s wife dick boulton came from the indian camp to cut up logs for nick’s father
“why do you keep on with that bullshit ?
when you looked closely two or three were obviously better than the others and sitting on the ground i picked
” “who was the girl ?
" " do you think we should buy a terminal of the lottery with an eighty-five ?
happy as i could be , it made me feel even better .
what unhappiness , she said .
suddenly , she had been acutely frightened of being alone .
remember that perfectly .
" but i ought to stay .
including nightmares .
' what can i do for you ?
' ' whatever it is , whatever it is , while i ' m still in the lee .
there was lots of brush on the hills and patches of woods and fine looking farms and good roads .
i couldn’t stand it when you felt that way .
the water was cold .
” “i think it’s the best thing to do .
there’s no reason for it ever happening and yet it’s happened many times and it still hurts like a bastard
said he’d been most frightfully and repeatedly insulting ; talking to me through an interpreter .
“i can’t ever thank you for what you did .
_ _num_ st roman soldier_--you see me slip the old spear into him ?
he could have had seguridad by simply asking on the telephone .
there were other short fighters , and he had never succeeded in imposing himself on the public’s fancy .
of all those who profited by war that they had founded the order .
” “you talk like an old man yourself .
they were good together .
“have a drink ?
the bull stood , heavy and dull again after the action .
" never mind .
have a failure of strength .
work the second lot at _num_ o’clock .
“good thing you go .
' ' we ' ll get some then .
they looked up at him .
the fiesta was over .
” nick reached in the bag and brought out a loaf of bread .
“he’s very young , ” said one .
he would quiet down .
” “well , they thought it was better to have it absorb , and that’s what i got .
you could not see the stream .
his mouth was full of the taste of pennies and they stopped behind some rocks and there were the turks
macomber stayed in the camp .
" say , " said john .
of adventure to their much envied and ever-enduring romance by a safari in what was known as darkest africa until
i was afraid you hadn’t come .
” “they don’t deserve it .
to heat the coffee .
it was the second winter of shelling in the siege of madrid and everything was short including tobacco and people’s
he was on the defensive again .
he cannot know that it is only one man against him , nor that it is an old man .
cut it out , he told himself .
his personal boy was sitting by the bed .
" come on , al , " said max .
you want to get to know this other character .
i didn’t come out here to be dull .
he moved his free hand in a parallel motion .
he took an awful beating in the body .
, lovely writer of _notturno_ whom we respect , and jerk .
but i had to call him .
” “won’t make no difference to you , comrade , ” said the man handling the dice .
georgette smiled that wonderful smile , and we shook hands all round .
mouth shut and we went on down the road , walking around the wet places , to where , sure
the bull saw the muleta .
i watched without admiration and m ' cola looked at the word without a shadow of expression on his face
sexual demands .
' ' don ' t cry , ' the colonel said .
then i started to think he wasn’t even on the crew list and i’d have a fine to pay for
, or , if that is too pompous a comparison , like streaks of fat between muscles .
she was thinking about him hard and then jim came out .
ahead they could see the top of each hill as a notch in the timber .
open and lay back , edge out across his knuckles .
“steve knocked him down , ” peroxide said .
the place was really packed and everybody was very jolly ; maybe getting just a little bit too jolly from
' ' the price is right , ' the girl said to him .
“no , ” i said , “that’s all i want .
” “look what he’s done for villalta , ” the first waiter said .
side of the pack and they would all be smutty postcards and lots of people would dig down and buy
i will take the butter to keep it cool .
we went back into the diner and had breakfast .
and if it was summer , and there was no one in town , you could always sit and enjoy
i say .
language she did not know .
" " it ' s none of your business .
aussi un français qui a apporté de l ' absinthe , " fontan said .
“sergeant , ” he said .
you go ahead with droopy .
i ' ve enjoyed it and i haven ' t worried up until to-day .
our scent was being scattered in all directions around the blind as sure to frighten any animals as though we
even if his father had never touched a drop bill was not going to get him drunk before he himself
" don ' t sit up , " the boy said .
“he’s all right , ” bill said .
' ' manamouki , ' said m ' cola and nodded his head .
this indian is very intelligent , however .
' ' it ' s nice to hear it anyway .
' the concierge was gone and he leaned on the desk resting .
” “the man is not crazy , ” cayetano said .
and then stop and pray for them .
" you have confidence ?
during these three years , the first spent in travel , the last two in paris , robert cohn had
" downstairs , the doctor left three different medicines in different colored capsules with instructions for giving them .
the cool dark of the pool room .
” “you ask him , please .
i would think of a trout stream i had fished along when i was a boy and fish its whole
he went below and came up with a blanket .
“what’s the matter , schatz ?
" " i ' m just waiting for the train , " said harris .
" " it ' s awful cold , " bill said .
he felt like a rock , too , before he started off .
he was delighted by it and proud and loving about it as though the anarchists had a colonel , too
now just quit suffering .
” “with a bath ?
" going to kidnap us .
' ' come on , ' i said , then waved the others down , and we started crawling up
at the etoile i took elsa maxwell ' s butler prisoner .
" he showed on the map how the attack had gone .
and boats all up in the town and trees blown down and everything all blown and i got a skiff
offered me ten thousand dollars to go to biarritz with him .
“they won’t look for us to have started with this blowing .
' ' i ' ll switch if you like .
” “i’ll try , ” nick had said .
they had deads too .
but i could try if you taught me .
myself .
” “we must fill the ice jug , ” roger said .
pas de pistol , pas de binoculaire .
at it .
of white wine at the zinc of the bar before they started .
“aw , keep it clean , ” the prisoner said .
if the boy were here he could rub it for me and loosen it down from the forearm , he
it was still closed , so he decided to go up to the hotel and get a bath , and
, ” she said .
we were sitting apart and we jolted close together going down the old street .
" come on .
" " them indians , " said mrs .
get some sleep .
“shut up , ” said captain willie .
it is useless for those selected as followers to protest .
“it sounds more determined .
or in spanish _para sempre_ .
one and then do those six blocks up the gran via through the mud and rubble of the streets broken
it was lousy to enjoy it , but i felt lousy .
because it was a very cheerful place , and because really cheerful people are usually the bravest , and the
" tell him bulls have no balls !
“hello , kid , ” the big man said .
go light as hell .
i thought the eyes would come out of jack’s head .
we better get whatever there is each day now and as much and as well as we can because it’s
” “what can i do to help ?
it was an overloaded grey-green camouflaged volkswagen and it was filled with steel-helmeted people looking as though they were racing
jake doesn ' t know about that .
“let me tie it up in a sling , ” the nigger said .
" we stood against the tall zinc bar and did not talk and looked at each other .
' ' that ' s what i do .
” “i know vevey , ” said my wife .
they sat against the tree and were quiet .
" mademoiselle !
his black hair shone under the electric light .
” as we went out there were six of them on the floor and al wagner was reaching up to
' ' he thinks they ' re terrible .
you don’t want to think about it .
now , where do we load ?
” “come on , play some cribbage , ” jack says .
” “i won’t take them off .
" my god , hello , " she said .
“go .
' ' no , repeat , no .
i worked the deep wells for a week and did nothing , he thought .
but his platoon , who had not followed the speech , there being no loud speakers then , and they
" hogan was counting for them .
' ' wherever that is , ' the girl said happily and unillusioned .
_ _num_ d soldier_--everybody ' s a nice fella to you to-night .
run out to fuentes with the new banderillas .
they sat at a small table in the corner of the room and on their right there were four women
then when he’s groggy he fouls him .
another porter came in and said the simplon-orient express was an hour late at saint maurice .
i can do it all myself but you might like it better done properly .
camp in triumph on the arms and shoulders of the cook , the personal boys , the skinner and the
“two different places in town .
how many people will he feed , he thought .
made it .
i ' ll have to be taking mr .
under the ridge in the heat of the day with the dust blowing , we came back , dry-mouthed ,
under his eyes and a stubble of beard , had just taken off a sweater that he wore and spread
he sat there , with his newspaper , thinking of the things of that day .
you stand right there , " al said .
“i’ll have to get some money .
” “oh , yes , ” i said .
he picked the mast up and put it on his shoulder and started up the road .
we must all help young writers .
but then i shouldn’t have done any of it , ” he said .
" he used to come to the terrace sometimes too in the older days .
" aren ' t you interested ?
” “it does it to me too , ” she said .
' i shouted , running across the hill toward him .
out with peasants sitting with their saddle-bags full of the things they had bought in the town .
i wish we could ask you to stay the night but it’s just out of the question .
" i can count them , " his father said .
we don’t shoot rummies .
” “that’s cowardly .
he said a camp meeting or a revival was bad enough but at least there was some sexual intercourse afterwards
sam , the nigger , standing in his apron , looked at the two men sitting at the counter .
easily they could run and then , as the going was better , up the smooth valley of a stream
“it’s got a swell , smoky taste , ” nick said , and looked at the fire through the glass
but what a diagnosis—and without the book .
the last blood while the other found the next , then going on , one on each side of the
the shelling moved further up the line .
to hell with them all !
we’ll have a hot grog .
two stakes chained together but not touching : like us the colonel thought .
you sail lighter for the loss of forty pounds .
i got onie’s and mine washed and they’re nearly dry .
he moved , still cat-like when he moved , although it was an old cat now , over to the
' ' kiss me once again and make the buttons of your uniform hurt me but not too much .
be enjoying it .
nothing did .
one thing i would like you to take with you as you leave this room .
“you can talk just as bloody wet as you want .
' ' not too cold .
i ' d hate to fight in this town where i love the people .
" " i can order one .
now that i was alone and there was no excitement , i knew we had been too far away and
he told the driver .
' ' i ' ve seen the patch .
and a chauffeur in livery .
“if it isn’t comfortable , littless , we can feather in some more balsam on that hemlock .
' ' you look beautiful .
” “he’s the one makes the noise at night .
strange light the sun made now .
” “photograph well ?
but i don ' t think i can .
" brett was nervous as i had never seen her before .
having ceased to miss or pray daily for her husband , dead , now , twenty years .
" i won ' t have carl talk that way .
harvey added my saucer to his own pile .
' rhino , ' he put in .
he rolled his head over and swallowed .
' to us , of course , such things are always interesting .
“i will respond for your work .
le toril was the better paper , so i started to read it .
' ' i don ' t believe so , sir .
deserves to be , anyhow .
” “well , ” my father said .
wounded buffalo to deal with , and when we came out on the edge of the burned country again ,
he ' s got thousands of acres of them .
' ' have you any concrete plans for the order during the winter ?
' ' we were just coming into town , ' pop said .
top of a hay mow .
” his sister handed him the rifle through the fence , butt toward him , and then crawled between the
" he took a big gulp of coffee .
barefooted .
stanford white , too .
they were sweethearts ; sure he ' s a queen , didn ' t you know that , of course
with the pain of the bone spur in his heel .
“you hear him ?
me and another .
' i guess that is one of the things everybody has to figure out for themselves .
legs to try and catch him .
i better get a partridge or a couple if i can .
there is no reason why because it is dark you should look at things differently from when it is light
when he handed you a time-table or explained about a direction .
" barnes .
but won’t you be bored just with me ?
now nick could get it if he wanted it .
stepped into doorways as they saw us coming .
i’ll just have some tea .
me with my hat off , we headed down into the high meadow grass and across the deeply cut watercourse
we could see the reeds swaying where the two of them were moving and then it was all quiet .
' we better not carry it too god-damned far .
“that’s a good thing to do .
one had a thompson gun and the other had a sawed-off automatic shotgun .
” his father said .
having been blasted out of the front of the apartment house by direct hits by high explosive shells .
we never knew him very well because he went so quickly .
“imagine being buried on a day like this , ” i said to john .
we haven’t got enough artillery to give any kind of real covering fire to keep them down and we haven’t
” “you’re drunk and you’ve had d .
" grand woman , though .
" " no , " the peroxide one said .
i dressed and went down-stairs and out into the cold early morning .
harvey was just a little daunted .
" " i won ' t eat down-stairs with that german head waiter .
the grass dried and there was no more moisture in the soil and it was dust in the wind .
he had a big moustache and looked very military .
externally he had been formed at princeton .
he saw one fall , then heard another shot .
it was a very large village and out of it came running long-legged , brown , smooth-moving men who all
all night after he had dressed the nigger’s wound and the nigger had bandaged his arm he had been watching
less than twenty yards .
they had made a dirty joke and then his father had begun to speak rapidly in swahili .
' sure .
" this for cohn ' s benefit .
' now we will cut out all references to glamour and to high brass , even from kansas , where
when you set a trap on an escape route you have four or , if you can afford them ,
“i guess i was pretty stewed last night , ” he started .
' he ' s truly not tough .
you weren ' t invited .
he felt he was going to get this little one with the white face .
“i am so sorry , ” he said , and patted me on the shoulder with his good hand .
“i didn’t say something i shouldn’t did i ?
it had modelled fast in the last three years .
“i can give you a nice double room for ten dollars .
david thought then in the night that the hollow way he felt as he remembered him was from waking hungry
god , what a beautiful rhino .
then i will stay down with him forever .
i never met any one of his class who remembered him .
i’m shot .
you know my bad news ?
” outside the arc-light shone through the bare branches of a tree .
" that ' s good , " she said .
mike won the first roll with four jacks .
beyond the fields we crossed another faster-flowing stream .
" you can ' t fire me , " william campbell said from underneath the covers .
“i love onions , ” she said .
that is about what they have left .
” there was a huge cooked ham , rosy and white edged in a half-opened tin on the table beside
off on the right there was a dump heap .
pace easily with the car as they moved long-legged , smoothly , loosely , and with pride .
" " it is still hot to ride , " captain paravicini said .
thirty to a brigade .
the train was due in at nine o ' clock from san sebastian , and , if brett and mike
but that was exactly the sort of thing that he would do in order to be able to boast of
, turned and started off at a trot , and , as macomber fired , he heard a whunk that
of music .
the passengers were standing up to see .
we done better to come in than to wait .
“what should we drink ?
' put your right hand in your pocket .
wearing a toga and carrying a bow and quiver of arrows , and behind him , his wife , very
" he says .
" the drummer sang softly .
wooden barrel and got two .
“i just got in .
guns on their backs , on one side , and on the other fat frenchmen in kepis and mustaches .
" " you talk like an old man yourself .
they waited but no other elephants came by and then david and the dog started off running in the moonlight
“sit down , ” he said .
in shooting large animals there is no reason ever to miss if you have a clear shot and can shoot
" later in the day we learned that the man who was killed was named vicente girones , and came
' just then who should come into camp but old karl with his two naked savages and his half-size ,
” “say , jack , ” i said , “didn’t you used to play the ponies ?
, which , being consulted on any given subject , told symptoms and treatment .
they were looking for dead fish along the beach .
“there is someone watching the front of the house .
' after a long stretch of the million-mile country , the country began to open out into dry , sandy
" " plenty , " the old man said .
there was a heavy strike .
we must eat and get out of here .
' the wind had blown her hair up and around his neck and he kissed her once more with it
" drink here , " he said in english .
’ you can be proud and satisfied at the way he’s getting along .
the music stopped again .
” he held her solidly against him and kissed her hard .
the picador ' s lance slid along his back , and as the shock of the charge lifted the horse
i ' m going right back down to the chapel and pray until it ' s finished .
it wasn ' t very funny and it wasn ' t very good , and it began to get to
' i agree .
” “well , ” i told him , “the hell of it is that it usually is too early or
when i came up i thought i wouldn’t make it to the top before i’d have to breathe .
away the book too , remember ?
; waiting for the order to go up that slope no man could go up and live .
" " oh , come off it , " brett said .
' ' in what year was your brother killed on grappa ?
there’s plenty of line .
' ' don ' t you write any more poetry ?
' please love me true and tell me as true as you can , without hurting yourself in any way
the doctor said : “that will all pass .
of the rafters , and , in the attic , jars of snakes and other specimens that my father had
slowly i pulled it along and looked at the muzzle .
” “i’ll come back .
" i was a fool to go away , " she said .
" he ' s never right .
“i promise you .
' but not what you mean .
” “i do not follow you .
" the coffee was good and we drank it out of big bowls .
" " i think perhaps i can too .
“how far is he ?
“are you ready to start ?
“you’re too good to me .
' ' should we take this new bottle in the gondola ?
we ' d go along fast for three minutes and then walk a minute , and then go fast for
" " during the war .
' ' best not say anything about that to the game department , though , ' pop said .
” “then let him not talk against our war , ” said the extremaduran .
i don ' t seem crazy to you , do i ?
” on the train going into town jack didn’t talk .
then , to me , “i am very sorry .
“now he gets a lieutenant’s pay .
" " like religion , " said the thin one .
nick went ahead with the rifle .
' ' first you fight to take a town that controls all the main roads .
michael and i understand each other .
wind-shield and radiator .
it all looked as though it belonged to somebody but it was nice looking country and the beeches and the
i drank some water from the canteen .
he saw a highcheekboned , thin-lipped , slightly pudgy face with deep set grey eyes and a contemptuous mouth looking
once in the afternoon the line started to rise again .
where ?
at the start of his first season as a full matador , been exceptionally brave and remarkably skillful and he
stop me if i talk too much .
it is like a second wife .
they’d always pick out the darkest place in the hold to have them .
of the other two matadors , one was very fair and the other was passable .
" " it ' s none of _my_ business , yes , but it was _your_ business .
the indian had been asleep , face down in the sand .
it wasn’t very funny and it wasn’t very good , and it began to get to jack .
his contingent hemingway was assigned to gather up the remains of the dead .
the other detective , not the one they called sergeant but the one handcuffed to the big prisoner , had
many people were praying .
the horses ' breath made plumes in the cold air .
the bull .
we waited till everybody had gone through and out of the station and gotten into buses , or taken cabs
these weaknesses were a part of the strengths unless they grew to dominate them ; but they were mostly hidden
romero smiled .
the chauffeur piled and strapped the bags on top of the car and put them in beside him in the
" well , you had plenty of girls in your time .
i bet that would fix me .
” ‘really ?
well , he would not have to fail at trying to write them either .
then she heard the sound of a big bird tossing and beating its wings on the ground .
dive .
” “you mean will i tell it at the mathaiga club ?
it is too far for the pellets to reach , he thought , but at least he will know that
” “at the berlitz school , sir .
” “i don’t know , ” his father said .
don ' t you ever want to change your ideas ?
saw the poplars and the lake beyond ; but there were never any more guns .
' ' that i can promise .
” “don’t understand , ” she said .
romero smiled and bowed .
he assures me he will be ok after this doctor finishes with him—do you think it right—i often heard my
after that he began to dream of the long yellow beach and he saw the first of the lions come
that ' s an abnormal life .
we were discussing your gait .
" she ' s in love with mike campbell , and she ' s going to marry him .
m ' cola was grinning , pressing his fingers tight on my wrist and we watched the big buck shiver
that’s a new word and we’ll bar it soon .
the lady had placed another arm around his neck .
there ' s probably some punt gunner trying to sneak up on them now .
will you do that ?
” wilson called in swahili and the older gun-bearer , who was skinning out one of the heads , straightened
chapter five it was a hot place to camp , under trees that had been girdled to kill them so
_wine-seller_--it ' s all right , lootenant .
” “who ?
the friends don ' t know about it , yet .
he’ll bleed when i start him going and that will bring it down .
people getting down from the bus open their bundles on the sidewalk .
” suzy asked .
they came out from the orchard past the mailbox onto the hard state highway .
i yelled to johnson to let him have line but before i could say a word i saw johnson rise
" if it was a man---- " " don ' t say that .
i meant will you please tell me more true episodes later ?
' good idea , ' pop agreed .
i been in here all day .
' as i was saying , portrait .
' who ' s joyce ?
to see the boats along the canal and miss that main traffic .
frankie was gone about a little over half an hour .
' you have only one more , ' pop whispered .
he jerked and pulled on the fish .
' where is your shore patrol ?
she looked very lovely and she was very much with them .
how nice .
of the forest .
they were wedge-shaped strips and he cut them from next to the back bone down to the edge of the
discussing writing and whether you could call them waxen candelabras .
the conductor got on in the car ahead and the brakeman picked up the little box we had stepped up
' and we are almost there .
" " she reads books all the time .
she felt jim right through the back of the chair and she couldn’t stand it and then something clicked inside
and attractiveness .
clearing the jam , then they were almost up with the bull when wilson yelled “stop , ” and the
" galanos .
he put down the saucer and poured the glass full of brandy .
i ' m quite serious .
" no , " said the bartender and put the glass cover back on the bowl .
we have the gallantry of worn through-rods that refuse to break ; the cylinder head that does not blow though
' then we were standing looking down into the stream bed , into the shadows under the branches of the
they wore gathered over the shoulder like a toga ; but when they had passed , the high trees beside
" " he ' s wonderful .
' ' if you have enough material .
the world was not wheeling any more .
“isn’t it beautiful ?
i mean i hoped you would .
" i ' m fond of him .
the horns curved back like scimitars , way back over their withers .
so long , fella !
' most uncivilized .
” “i don’t know , ” i said .
she had been taken up by them .
you’ve been good for a long time now and maybe you can be good .
” “ten thousand francs .
you ' re drunk .
there is nothing wrong with your body .
then i would have to recognize that i could not remember and give up saying my prayers that night and
" " me either , " bill said .
' ' i ' ll be the moon .
“want me to walk with you ?
the bar-tender shook hands with him .
the lunch room was crowded .
, fast-rushing gait that moved them in big-bellied panic through the trees .
those who were aficionados could always get rooms even when the hotel was full .
” the two other whores , the big ones , acted very quiet and placid as though they didn’t have
' they ' re three marvellous kudu , ' he said .
appearance of danger in order to give a fake emotional feeling , while the bull-fighter was really safe .
you did not need a girl .
hudson .
he went past these , stopping to ask one seller where his clams came from .
" one of the men asked .
i’m not sleepy .
that the fishermen called the great well because there was a sudden deep of seven hundred fathoms where all sorts
” the soldiers all nodded .
it is he that has the hook in his mouth .
' m ' cola said definitely and finally .
“sister cecilia wants to know how the game is going ?
it doesn ' t all have to be palaces nor churches .
' ' please don ' t be bad .
” “listen , comrade .
to-night we will have a special dish of viennese dessert .
" damned good thing , what ?
trees over a ravine that ran down from the side of a ridge to the water and we leaned the
' it ' s just like when we were kids and we heard about a river no one had ever
jack got up .
it bellied and pulled hard in the current .
" " where did you hear that ?
he looked at manuel .
' ' you ' re not worried about that , are you ?
“that was pretty easy , ” she said .
lots for location , karl and i hunted in the dusk around two of the hills across the road above
' ' they get hard if you don ' t take them .
through the window i saw two men come up the front steps .
you ought to get some sleep .
” there was no answer .
" come on to the café , " i said .
language .
" " i doubt it .
of the boat and swam to the canal bank .
" just the same , so far , " he said .
i look at plane come over , bank , turn like this” (he turned and banked with his hands) ,
“what did he say ?
“you don’t know all the needs i have for money .
it rained all through the evacuation .
please ?
he only noticed how lightly and how well the skiff sailed now there was no great weight beside her .
' ' you and me , maybe , ' she said and stroked his head .
belmonte ate very little .
only don’t be a damn fool , ” the ghee said .
“he certainly had this offensive sized up .
but why couldn ' t he just get a good one , two or three inches longer ?
' ' daughter , we fought twelve times from ranbouillet to enter the city .
nick walked along .
” “what should we drink ?
the bull did not move .
the blonde screamers and everyone who had started over there when the shot came drew back away from the flit
* * * * * we had breakfast before daylight and were started before sunrise , climbing the hill beyond
and i don ' t care about our losses because the moon is our mother and our father .
' dan ignored this .
you could have seen a shark a long way away .
yes and no .
“so would you be drunk comrade old comrade .
' ' i ' d like to see one .
he found his pole where he had thrown it .
we intended to come , but we were too tired after the trip .
between the two fences of the runway the police were clearing the crowd along .
would you like to live in the country too ?
the bus went quite fast and made a good breeze , and as we went out along the road with
the last bull he was so tired he couldn’t get the sword in .
his first bull did not see well .
[he turns to the third roman soldier who is leaning on a barrel .
to snake it out .
” “maybe it’s because i’m younger , ” she said .
all the time there was music in the street .
he never could make sense .
oh , jim .
the youths of the cuadrillas were behind , their heavy capes furled over their arms .
they were all running together .
" " anywhere .
he saw the reflected glare of the lights of the city at what must have been around ten o '
i ' m not in c .
“the police tell us we have to come—so we come .
i have yesterday ' s paper and i will read the baseball .
" " i been away a long time , " i said .
“you bet , ” she said .
he only needed the feel of the trade wind and the drawing of the sail .
" " you have italian medals .
he nodded .
doyle .
foxes in the fall after they bring the cattle down .
and i couldn’t stop crying , crying and choking , sort of , and george gardner came in and sat
of jack ' s head and socked the right into the body as hard as he could sock , just
but i do not think he will fight for long .
he don’t move around much and that left hand is just automatic .
' ' i ' ve been studying them a little .
not even to please me ?
they rowed on out of sight of the mill , following the shore line .
fast in front of the café and went in through the gate and out onto the dock and got on
have a good trip ?
the other two were looking out through the blind .
" how much do i get ?
were right in the months of sudden bad weather .
if you hadn’t , by now you’d be back home working trying to get enough money to get married .
making the grits dearer and the grunts cheapter .
he turned over a log and just under the shelter of the edge were several hundred hoppers .
" " it is necessary to be very strong against something , " mr .
" " nothing happens to me .
a franc for the tip .
to reach him behind the planks with a half-dozen quick , searching drives with the right horn .
“you know , ” he said , “i like liquor pretty well .
” “it’s good and cold .
” “a bottle of sportsman , ” johnson said to the waitress .
" " so long , mike , " bill said .
luz never got an answer to the letter to chicago about it .
" in the next machine was a major who had a little hand like a baby ' s .
self-praise .
he said .
then there was the day when the great british authority on let us forget just what came to town .
i told it to a doctor and he said i was lying .
” “prefer the west coast myself , ” the man said .
too steep , walking them , and leaving them beside the cut , walked over to the entrance to the
he had dropped both parts of his pyjamas and he looked at himself critically and truly .
we found out at the tourist office what we ought to pay for a motor-car to pamplona and hired one
if i ever shut my eyes in the dark and let myself go , my soul would go out of
“what’s this ?
now he would never write the things that he had saved to write until he knew enough to write them
“can i get supper ?
bundles and loads of skins were scattered along ahead on the heads of other natives .
[he makes a face .
" how was it up above ?
“hello !
nick came in with the log through the kitchen and in passing knocked a pan off the kitchen table .
he said he knew how to shoot so i took out the shells and put on the safety and handing
then he stepped out and made her fast to a rock .
" " are you blind ?
“and these other gentlemen ?
then he was dead .
to work in leather and to cane chairs when he got well enough to leave the hospital .
lake , or if he ever saw a horse and buggy , or when he saw , or heard ,
" i set down the glass .
now muck off .
“how silly .
" " let ' s find the gang and go down .
" asked the detective sergeant , looking across the bed at the interpreter .
" i ' m going up to paris and sail from havre for the states .
nick walked up the two steps and pushed the bell .
” “a wife would be no good to him now .
" " how about another bottle around ?
“what’s the matter with him ?
slid it sputtering across the hot skillet .
“but this time it’s air conditioning .
then gilford rolled over to one side off my old man and got up and started to run on three
' he showed me one hour on my watch .
he drank off the brandy .
“a man in my position has the right to be tired .
it was marly and his toes hated it as he uncurled and shoved hard against it to come up to
” he would put his gun in the rack and wait to watch his father shoot and then the two
" " that ' s just it , " said robert .
then , “do you know why i’m drunk ?
, or who wore a cap , or carried any other sign he was a working man .
" neither for you nor for me .
really , i don ' t care anything about them .
“you be in town before the fight ?
" you know i never knew you were drunk until you started talking coming back in the camions .
“what i was thinking about when you went downstairs was that you could go to paris and then to london
' the girl , renata , that you are , is sleeping now without ever having done anything to her
the gulf between rebecca and tortugas when she struck on the quicksands .
m ' cola was asleep .
he sat in the car happy that in another half hour they would be in venice .
it don’t make any difference to me .
” “you keep on reading , ” she said .
then once they were at the barrier it got me worse than anything .
his head rested on his left arm .
aren ' t you sure ?
“he’s out in the barn with a couple of his customers , ” i said .
" you can stop the slaughter .
his adjutant sat at another table .
” “i would be glad to buy some beer if there is good beer .
" " he ' s been shot already , " said the officer .
, suddenly perilously difficult , then blindingly , happily , safely , encompassed ; free of all doubts , all
" " carl can ' t get a girl , " his mother said , " not even a squaw
“listen , amigo , ” said mr .
from the weinstube and saw every one coming home from church .
“if it isn’t enjoyable , why do it ?
“i’m sorry , nickie , ” his sister said .
the old man looked at him .
" " make it the other side of town then .
man was sitting back in his chair looking down at his coffee and fooling with a spoon and holbrook and
" and he said " i don ' t know who killed him but he ' s dead all right
“he turned to smile at me .
” “they’re bad when they’re drunk .
' you don ' t want a nice susser tod sandwich do you miss renata ?
" " i saw your friend , prudie .
joyce was of medium height and he wore his eyes out .
' not manoeuvres .
with a horn through him .
' hit , ' said m ' cola .
i ' m called just billy .
" would you like me to bring you something ?
christ , if he ' d only kill any damn thing clean .
" " you don ' t work .
' look at the pair of them , ' i said .
" asked the cook .
campbell had said : " come in !
he had it badly .
promise me ?
part iii previously unpublished fiction “a train trip” represents the first four chapters of an unfinished and untitled lardneresque novel
remember plenty things and your best friends again and the finest people that you know .
“ask for pepé , ” i said .
and much blood in the snow .
being alive returning and no pain , the comfort of being loved and still no pain ; so there was
" then he added , " blessed virgin , pray for the death of this fish .
when a lot of little chickens like it .
soft , powdery to the just moist and yielding to the firm cool sand of the line of the receding
she wasn’t strong to climb .
“it’s hot , my god .
in the belly , the head , the feet or the hands , the neck , the back , the
“buying is as bad or worse than selling , ” she said .
" " do you know that in about thirty-five years more we ' ll be dead ?
“he thought he knew before but then he dropped down into this stuff .
” “we’ll give him ten minutes , ” max said .
to a beautiful lady who looked like the pictures of anna held on the inside of cigar boxes .
" " him ?
" then he wanted me to go to cannes with him .
, flickering like an old cinema film , but pink instead of grey .
" no , " said the friend .
the old man would have liked to keep his hand in the salt water longer but he was afraid of
why shouldn’t we do it ?
' ' you could stand sidewise .
but he was not dead .
plate .
a woman that you really love , when , empty , you feel it welling up again and there it
they are what is really distinguished .
you get so you don ' t miss it .
killed and were not ; and this had given me confidence .
ernst udet i liked the best .
' ' dante isn ' t around , ' the colonel said .
i taught you to shoot , didn’t i ?
he did not wish to be unjust .
awful noble-looking nigger .
” “oh , it’s pretty bad .
the man who had wanted to pay then bought me a drink .
i am sorry gentlemen , but i have to leave you .
" " i can taste that still , " nick remembered suddenly and completely .
he did not want any consequences ever again .
then after the last one we waited a couple of minutes to see if it had stopped , had a
he was in love with general grant .
you don ' t want those in other languages , do you , richard ?
they gave him a dollar to see that i got it .
he liked the market best .
to bind him to the skiff .
they do not want to be lonesome .
" he brought it and i took out my fountain-pen and printed : lady ashley hotel montana madrid arriving sud
" anything else , sir ?
as it was getting dark the train passed a farmhouse burning in a field .
you hear a loon holler a couple of times when you got an empty stomach and you’ll be back .
some chink .
” “i know a lot , ” william campbell said .
' ' very good .
it was an old trick we learned in spain drinking out of wine skins without swallowing .
not so good .
was down , the colonel had killed his mate , who was climbing , long-necked and fast .
” “monsieur is going to divorce , ” the first porter explained .
there were bags of charcoal piled beside the road , and through the trees we saw charcoal-burners’ huts .
what about sexual intercourse ; was that an opium of the people ?
' ' he thinks you did it on purpose , ' pop said .
he is a spy .
he also published two short stories in the atlantic monthly , “get a seeing-eyed dog , ” and “a man
but everywhere were tsetse flies , swarming around you , biting hard on your neck , through your shirt ,
hunter’s face .
alvarito was looking for you .
he was about thirty-five , i should think , and wore only a piece of cloth knotted over one shoulder
he had not gone a yard from the trap .
“no , ” she said .
chill gone .
so this was the way it ended , in a bickering over a drink .
” “not right now maybe .
you look well .
” “i want to go with you .
george made me a couple of jack roses .
i say , she is a piece .
he did not yet understand politics but it always gave him a thrill to hear the tall waiter speak of
grass with the bottles tucked under their arms .
" he ' s all bone , " the boy said encouragingly .
she ' s making good money with the place .
now she is at home and sleeping , the colonel thought .
we sung a song about the italians and they don’t understand it .
this is the last really wild stream there is except in another awful country to get to beyond the foot
old hollowness coming inside of him and knew he must stop it .
it ' s a strange , tricky town and to walk from any part to any other given part of
the wanderobo had a very strong odour and i looked at the way the lobes of his ear were stretched
it was like a great train .
” “i have to go , ” mr .
' ' you have a heart and it is not worthless .
” “gee , i hope i won’t start to be a girl while we’re on the trip .
what does he think i am , a bloody plaster saint ?
you spoke about lightning joe before .
, waiting for the announcement that the canvas bath had been a quarter filled with hot water .
the burlesque show caught william campbell at kansas city .
yes , you bastard , but what about the cow you missed twice , prone , standing broadside ?
“very interesting , very interesting , ” the major said , and handed it back to the doctor .
i said " who killed him ?
he turned and walked down the platform .
maybe he was .
be very careful and kind .
you can’t see him until you’re right on him .
only place we could get up the bank led through the stump-filled maize field .
some of those streams i still remember and think that i have fished in them , and they are confused
he pulled the blanket over his shoulders and then over his back and legs and he slept face down on
he wondered for how long .
" " you asked me that once , " brett said .
“i didn’t want to have to leave you here too .
you when you want it ?
pectoral fins set wide as wings and the great erect tail slicing through the dark .
behind them was a little bare space , and then the bulls galloping , tossing their heads up and down
almost white now from washing and the sun .
“they’ll change the thirds on us , ” manuel said .
they were all cows ; evidently the bunch whose bull i had wounded and lost , and they had come
he straightened up , wiping his hand on his trousers .
” “did she get over it ?
it was difficult getting him in , but once in he lay back in the leather seat , and the
pancho sat down hard and went over forward .
they were all listening ; as men who cannot read or write listen to a story .
i was back in france .
there are enough problems now without sin .
" " no kill him .
in sight of the masai village .
both guy’s feet on the first-speed pedal , up and up , back and forth and up , and ,
' we went out that afternoon and glassed the country from the hills and never saw a thing .
in reality she was forty years old .
go with it and in the dark they were running with it trying to go through the gulf between rebecca
one of the women was in mourning ; a mourning so theatrical that it reminded the colonel of the lady
" but he was that big and at the end of this circle he came to the surface only thirty
“it seems it is very bad .
of the road .
they were walking with their arms around each other .
phillips , ' he said to pop .
” george laughed and the chef laughed .
i looked to see who said it .
any of the three matadors .
" if durocher had continued to come here each year your father would think him the greatest manager .
right .
but it sounded all right as he said it .
there were cafés where you went for politics and nothing else but you didn’t talk politics at chicote’s .
we could not make karl feel good and for a long time we could not feel good ourselves .
” “how do you want the money ?
across the bed built like a beaver dam and evidently designed to hold back the water .
that house meant more than anything and every night he had it .
' ' it ' s not too neat but it is damn lovely .
“i’ve just thought of it , ” kate said .
the line pulled hard and nick struck .
with the big-headed german bazooka .
the opiums are for before and for after .
” “i know what i’m talking about , ” said the short man with the very thick glasses .
aren ' t you ?
they were pretty nice fellows .
he is out with his lady .
he squatted down and bathed his knee .
“maria ?
where the headlights picked out the trail through bushes and then , when the road was better , i went
" " don ' t forget to tell pedrico the head is his .
" fine , " i said .
because mike was trying to make it clear that that was not at all what he was going to drink
he sat on the small of his back .
' how is his horn ?
m ' cola hated it .
and ate them filaments and all .
she was very handsome , and mr .
there was no meat in camp , and i wanted to hunt back in a circle with droopy to see
“landscape with figures , ” a story of the spanish civil war , was written around _num_ , and was
' ' you ' ll have to give me a certificate .
that was what they told you .
' ' quite hungry , i suppose .
he pushed on the sword as he went up and over , and it flew out of his hand .
' ' good night , karl .
then he buttoned the pocket .
“smoke ?
” i said to the german .
it swung as she turned her head .
“i worked on my book .
' ' it was wonderful when we heard him bellow , ' p .
odgar was staying at the house .
' ' you are nice when you are gentle .
the lunch counter was on the shady side of the square and looked out on a red bricked court house
" " you mean you won ' t .
he waved to helen and to the boys and , as the clatter moved into the old familiar roar ,
we all knew we had killed the other kudu that i had mistaken for this one , while this first
' but it was too late .
good husband .
the flags in the square hung wet from the white poles and the banners were wet and hung damp against
he had no money , and they fed him behind the counter in railway eating houses .
see him walk , even .
“où est la fucking point ?
the bull recharged as the pase natural finished and manuel raised the muleta for a pase de pecho .
“it’s a wonder retana wouldn’t give us enough light to see the horses by , ” one picador said .
the path crossed the stream on another foot-log below the ford , and joined the road , and we went
i was just confident .
we’ll get hold of frank and the rest of them .
“put that bottle away , ” i said to him , “or i’ll blow you out of the boat .
m ' cola shouted , ' piga !
forgiven papa and how a squadron of guardia civil had to be called out to disperse the eight hundred young
' i guess you don ' t say stick them up in this hotel , ' the colonel had said
" you think we make a baby ?
the old man motioned with his finger .
listening all the time , even when our guest had arrived ; listening while writing letters , listening while reading
i undressed in one of the bath-cabins , crossed the narrow line of beach and went into the water .
' chapter iv now , on his way into venice , keeping strictly controlled and unthinking his great need to
” “he can strike me too , ” peroxide said .
" no , probably i won ' t be .
all this time i was angry about the uncleaned rifle and yet happy and eager with anticipation that we might
“they won’t help you .
danced .
“that boat ?
” “who are you ?
that son of a bitch .
also at lérida .
" andré put the twenty-two-calibre rifle back in the cupboard .
i don’t know what to say .
' ' in the _querschnitt_ .
" " what ' s he going to do ?
“i’ll have a gimlet too .
the sword-handlers and bull-ring servants came down the callejon carrying on their shoulders the wicker baskets of fighting capes and
he buttonholed a priest who was coming back with one of the returning streams of pilgrims .
” “and he’s only going to see us once , ” al said from the kitchen .
he was speaking to belmonte .
” “none of it don’t mean anything to me , ” said captain willie .
“aren’t our bodies nice to each other ?
" all they want is litri and rubito and la torre .
“that’s right , ” ad said happily .
eat the other flying fish .
” “anything in the book bag that we haven’t read .
i had never noticed it before .
” “it is for this that i now hate russians as well as all other foreigners , ” said the
a football picture for a college annual ; now they were humped and swollen in the grass ; propaganda postcards
' ' please don ' t be rough , ' she said .
hirsch , ” nick said .
' and i just took the city of paris .
don ' t drink off the floor .
nobody can hear what we say here .
reach of the river and the low curve of the opposite bank and the whitened , sun-baked mud where the
down the river was notre dame squatting against the night sky .
it all went out of sight around the corner .
it is like a very clean spanish town and it is on a big river .
" wollen sie trinken ?
i’ll set the alarm and call you .
he reached in the leather sword-case , took out a sword , and holding it by its leather scabbard ,
" i wiped it off with the rag .
“let’s not think about it now but everyone be happy and go out to dinner .
don’t start telling me what night it is .
i knelt and started to pray and prayed for everybody i thought of , brett and mike and bill and
she never lives there much and stays out at the country house near treviso where they have trees .
brett did not turn up , so about quarter to six i went down to the bar and had a
a touch above and quite a way ahead and swung with him .
“go on , ” he said , “before your number gets dirty again .
you did not have to like it because you understood it .
the long road of lombardy poplars that ran to the lake was in the moonlight .
he said it all .
' the driver did , and the man moved over to the side of the road without either looking up
almost grecian nose , rather high cheekbones , and large , intelligent eyes .
there it was .
the paper means nothing unless you say them in your heart .
you know the water .
the big bull .
i ' ll go if you like .
' ' take the canvas upstairs to my room , ' the colonel said to the concierge .
whyn’t they bring the liquor in on the ferry ?
a man asked us for our papers and when i said , “foreigners , ” he said to go along
my father and burned our villa on the brenta and the day i saw a german officer shooting pigeons with
“you don’t speak spanish ?
" " leave ' em for you to finish .
then he smiled .
“you’ve got me worried .
" pernod .
" the warm wind blew the bead curtain against the table .
listen , i ' m all right with my conscience .
it was a beechwood forest and the fallen beechnut burrs were under his shoes as he walked between the trees
the stripes showed clear on him .
it was a history and he was reading about all the engagements he had been in .
' ' you beat him on impalla , on eland .
“i took it in the first show , the very first show , and it only made me very upset
she left him and went off with a miniature-painter .
all the time rockets were going up .
it were snow and the old man looking at it and saying , no , that’s not snow .
well , i’m glad you’re not sore .
” “waiting .
to the trees where p .
' ' it is not discreditable .
only away from home .
' ' i never could like them or take such a tolerant attitude as you do , since they killed
i suppose , of course , that hills that a railroad runs by can not be the same .
i don ' t believe there ' s any sensation in that hand .
" " oh , no , sir , it is not permitted to drink in the café with the clients
red said they were waiting to tie in behind white .
" i ' ll get the plates , " he said , " or bring them with you .
there were lighted bars and late open shops on each side of the street .
part i “the first forty-nine” preface to “the first forty-nine” the first four stories are the last ones i have
“yeah .
" i guess i like them .
” claude asked him .
" " it was like everything in vienna .
they will be , he said .
any of it you want to get rid of you can always tell me .
and he’d be jogging easy just behind me and after a little while i’d look around again and he’d begun
i waded out .
i could be a part of the ground where the children play in the evenings , and in the mornings
" " don ' t try to be funny .
' ' i ' m sorry , ' karl said .
on the edge of the cliff , and on up until we were in the high , hot , modern
he was asleep .
its western summit is called the masai “ngàje naài , ” the house of god .
there was a series of holes in the top of the bank with a few men in them .
it was there that the fighting was going on , now , and we used the old homestead both as
the moon had been up for a long time but he slept on and the fish pulled on steadily and
packsack until he found the pint bottle of whiskey .
circles around some hills and finally came out into a meadow full of little , humpy masai cattle and ,
" he must be the village idiot , " bill said .
at the accademia and to the sculoa san rocco and eat in good cheap joints behind the market or ,
“put his papers back on him .
neck , her face as fresh , he thought , as though she were in england .
going through his pain .
than two hundred dollars and sometimes less than that .
now who would join me in a glass of valpolicella ?
where his trunk had moved it a little way from the place it had rested on the ground and where
we ' re all friends .
' just give me a good lot .
they better be good , his conscience said .
brett was watching them with the glasses .
" and i should know .
' he ' ll get an oryx down there and he ' ll feel better , ' pop said .
that can be .
” they came from the hot sun of the slashings into the shade of the great trees .
tabeshaw , ” he said .
he tried to increase the tension , but the line had been taut up to the very edge of the
“where have you been ?
" " there were these bulls coming in , " mike said .
up with them and go on for kudu .
” “i’d like to destroy you a few times in bed , ” he said .
“for you .
donkeys , and after the lorry came up and m ' cola and charo had skinned the heads out and
it’s just like it was before .
off at the edge of the wooded hills on the far side above a masai village .
he took one out of the box and drank it .
that was all that mattered .
" he could not remember the words .
i ' m only afraid i may be bored , " cohn said .
" and they were very nice .
fontan smiled at me .
received who caught them , and he thought , now i must see the stream and canal fishes and get
” trudy folded her brown legs together happily and rubbed against him .
' ' i still think he ' ll find himself off by himself , ' pop said .
see you at lunch .
you take two , and he continued resting as lightly as a hawk rests .
the brother cut the notched black ear from the dead bull and trotted over with it to romero .
” “why they want to shoot ?
" doesn ' t he ?
“i haven’t any .
, and a fez that some hunter had given him .
" after a little while jack gets up and says , " you buy the meal , john , "
“it’s funny a priest never speaks to you , ” john said .
everybody laughed except the waiter who was carrying a tray full of drinks at the time .
you get started on the tub .
keep the lines straight up and down and at their proper depths .
' when you are a general you live in a trailer and your chief of staff lives in a trailer
to it , and then leave it and come here .
” “i won’t worry about that because it’s perfectly simple .
he saw him first as a dark shadow that took so long to pass under the boat that he could
' that is why i used it and its female population as a symbol .
" his voice sounded very strange .
" that has only happened once .
there was the green of the headlands , the white , red-roofed villas , patches of forest , and the
" this is country , " bill said .
but if i do it , then it will be nice again if i say things are like white elephants
" he never went turtle-ing .
fish on the cords .
but this paco , who waited on table at the pension luarca , had no father to forgive him ,
” manuel sat down ; his cap off , his face was changed .
' that spooked me , ' i said to pop .
had been to him when he had gone up close to the elephant in the night , and he knew
since the rain .
that was his native town and so it gave him pleasure to mention it and he smiled .
a little is enough .
that night it came on to blow and it blew for a week .
there was no carbon to record what the customer ' s ticket said .
_fa brutto tempo_ .
his mother ?
i suppose , though , it finally becomes a social defect to be unable to believe any marriage has not
" you watch me .
" give me back the card and put your gun away .
" he laughed and tipped his hat down over his eyes and changed the angle of his cigar and the
” “any of them , ” the man said .
" we ought to pull out on the noon bus for burguete .
" or with a very furry fedora .
nor have i ever done anything that i was ashamed of except tell lies when i was a little girl
oh , hell .
to try to get a high enough place to see to shoot .
" no , i can ' t say i liked it .
where ' s the bloody bull ?
would have to try it right away to try to force the passes of the quadarramas the way napoleon had
it was only to talk .
he couldn’t tell her , he couldn’t make her see it .
' ' i like to hear them nights .
' he ' s no better than what you have , ' he said softly .
do you want a dessert ?
“she never speeds up .
dome of the capitol standing up white out of the edge of the sea .
' ' perhaps he is meditating on new and more distinguished shameful acts .
father had said , “do you want to make peace , davey ?
but i noticed he was putting it on , all right , just the same .
' go away , ' i said in english .
onto the stretcher and cried and cried , and he looked so white and gone and so awfully dead ,
" " she ' s a remarkably attractive woman .
" " no ; i mean really .
" it ' s a sure thing they ' ll come , " i said .
teased about prudence mitchell .
" " bring me some coffee and milk and a shot of the ordinary , " manuel said .
" he ' s a real aficionado .
" about twenty-six arrobas .
he ' s had enough fight , so he ' s watching now .
“what’s that ?
” “i guess so , ” i said .
nor krauts , either , since unfortunately , i am a soldier .
“do you still love me ?
i ought to take the pills , he thought .
through to the inside , there was a shout , then another shout .
your tubes out and when you started c .
" we left the floor and i took my coat off a hanger on the wall and put it on
” “they make fine flyers .
more of a hunter , a faster and a cleaner tracker , and a great stylist in everything he did
brennan , ” bruce said at the train , “i sure hope you knock his can off .
pilgrims .
" asked an artillery officer who was waiting to have a wound in his arm dressed .
” “i am in no mood to toy with the dice , ” said baldy .
' ' of course natives lie like hell , but he tells it very straight .
' chapter seven in the morning karl and his outfit started for the salt-lick and garrick , abdullah , m
you have to have some damned fatherland , he thought .
” “let me send—” “no , ” said nick .
packard knows what you need .
and then crying , his head up looking at nothing , carrying himself straight and soldierly , with tears on
“that part is very strange .
didn ' t you hear him bellow ?
double and parting the grass to look , yet the blood spoor was plain on the grass blades .
the cord went over his shoulder .
this offensive is gone .
' ' you ' re lovely , ' the colonel told her .
packard said .
' i hope so , ' pop said .
” “you mean you’d go in by yourself ?
' no chance of a shot .
” “i don’t want no coffee .
' i asked karl .
he knew where he was from the position of the river .
we lay there and i could see a light from the delegate’s house back through the bush .
he knew he would need his hands before this was over and he did not like to be cut before
and don ' t you use the term .
” “enameled , ” roger said .
liking him she opened the door and looked out .
" " couldn ' t you have gotten into something else ?
i picked up the money off the cockpit floor and took it up and put it on the binnacle and
they were all very long poems .
” “you mean you won’t .
my old man had a big lot of money after that race and he took to coming into paris oftener
” “it was not a joke in such bad taste , you see ?
but nobody would ride twice in this thing on purpose .
' ' didn ' t you see anything ?
” we went along the road all night in the dark and the adjutant kept riding up alongside my kitchen
timber on both sides .
“i’ve got to have one good pic , ” manuel said .
i pretended to be asleep .
into the car and cranked up the glass of the side window as it was bitterly cold .
big two-hearted river part i the train went on up the track out of sight , around one of the
the wagon stopped outside under the big elm and mrs .
he’s not a beet worker .
nick dropped carefully down the embankment and cut into the woods to come up to the fire through the trees
" we climbed down .
still harris was not the upper classes .
reedy marsh that ran down toward the receded lake , cut by canals of water , ducks were flying and
“and i don’t give a damn .
hail nothing full of nothing , nothing is with thee .
” “why nickie , mr .
the bull ' s eyes watched it and turned with the swing , but he would not charge .
wheeler never took chances .
anyway , they sleep like pigs .
” “she does .
" you better have another piece .
if i could only be a saint !
' he ' s a fine one .
just exchange of values .
” “how well do you know the boy ?
' ' the people of leclerc , another jerk of the third or fourth water , whose death i celebrated
but what can i tell this girl now on this cold , windy morning in the gritti palace hotel ?
snow .
“they age it in rusty nail kegs with a few old nails to give it zest .
it was the sullen boatman shooting at the ducks that would have come to the colonel .
he was not a boy any more , of course .
" what time you want to go into town ?
" " ah , " said the lady , crestfallen , " he doesn ' t take bananas .
how do i know we can ever get back here again ?
he was ugly to look at and everybody liked his face .
_] what ' s the matter with you ?
girls around supper time looking for somebody to take them out to eat and they’d speak to my old man
i’d let her drift .
he ' s not so interesting .
then fifteen cows and one bull .
” “he must be a very interesting young man .
go ahead shoot him .
' and he better damn well be tender .
but we returned by feltre .
" " he had a wife once too .
we didn’t do any work .
' ' i am not proud of it , ' the girl said , very sleepily .
“i don’t think so , ” said the american lady .
” “no i don’t .
i looked for sharks but there weren ' t any .
do you think we should try now so we’ll know ?
not beautiful as a gondola is , of course .
down at the station there were five whores waiting for the train to come in , and six white men
' ' i ' ve made mistakes in my home town , ' the colonel said .
” after a little while jack gets up and says , “you buy the meal , john , ” and
” he emptied out the notecase .
' ' i was thinking about the rapido , sir , i didn ' t mean to be insolent or
“i love the kids .
' ' is it the same cow ?
' the man in the boat said nothing that could be heard .
s shop and studied the two small negro heads and torsos that were carved to ebony and adorned with studded
dear henry was just a bonne bouche .
it was an idiotic idea , he said , " a theory , like another .
” then the train was in the dark of the gare de lyons , and then stopped and porters came
now is nothing more to worry .
fear of my father .
" " what are bull-fighters like ?
every woman ought to be given a copy of this face as she leaves the altar .
" listen , jerry , " jack says .
” “let’s eat in the hotel , ” john says .
she never has any money .
she was like someone enjoying a good musical show .
" asked the chauffeur .
they should be allowed to keep the name of the language .
the ground was too hard to leave a track and we never found blood again .
she sends him money .
it was a nice big room with two beds and a door opening into a bath-room .
' ' are you excited to see it ?
” “are you married ?
he ' d have to come to get me .
speak up .
the strain will shorten his circle each time .
his father was with him , suddenly , in deserted orchards and in new-plowed fields , in thickets , on
but , as a good venetian , i wish that she were dead .
the big frame , the quick movements , the wide shoulders , the hooked , hawk nose , the beard
, intrenching tools , ammunition boxes , star-shell pistols , their shells scattered about , medical kits , gas masks
dying , he dropped flat and started to crawl .
in my pocket .
the blades in the water , he began to row out of the harbour in the dark .
we should have stopped .
" i like it very much that you like my work , " he said .
" we came out of the tuileries into the light and crossed the seine and then turned up the rue
make it a hundred if you like .
" maybe he ' ll get enough of it , " guy said .
” “tell me .
" " bananas are all right , " guy said .
it was raining harder .
and clean the place up for you to sleep tonight .
town were baking in the sun .
the springs .
i’m just tired and i wanted to talk .
nice head with tommy archibald riding him ; and after the black was a string of five more horses all
the street was dark and wet , and we walked along it to the fortifications at the edge of town
things were just as they were when he had decided to come here and let things blow over .
nothing was changed in the town except that the young girls had grown up .
of the skiff .
” “hear that , bugs ?
the old man looked at the fish constantly to make sure it was true .
' ' good .
" it ' s come out well .
on top of the bus .
i drank it up last night .
i’ll leave my bags here .
we passed a wine-shop with a sign in the window : good wine _num_ centimes a liter .
“you have a boat ?
” bill took down the two shotguns from the rack on the wall .
' ' what is killing a kudu , anyway ?
“don’t you get in any trouble about this .
" we paid the bill and stood up .
fishing for mutton fish on the rock bottom by the morro , and i headed her out where the gulf
' i was tired of the conversation which was becoming an interview .
the american lady was a little deaf and she was afraid that perhaps signals of departure were given and that
road and they came to a tearing swerving halt and had started to back when the bazooka hit .
slept because it was all mixed up in a dream about not sleeping and really not sleeping .
nose in , as warm wax can be smoothed .
” “not much .
' chai , ' he said , pulling on my blanket .
” “sure , ” said frankie .
we were going along the river and the country was very beautiful and i had never seen anything like it
” “do you have any real absinthe ?
i hope no fish will come along so great that he will prove us wrong .
smoking and quiet , with their hats off , leaning back against the wall or forward on the table .
” “hitler’s a man of his word .
“i can kiss this sheet and see right through it at the same time .
" it took about an hour .
but maybe , as you go along , you will get good at it .
on the other side were snowy mountains .
down against the base of a tree and tried to make him understand .
she never could forgive learning that and she was afraid people would notice it , where she ' d learned
” asked the waiter , corking up the bottle .
it is not just a report ?
' i ' ll be the best god-damned boy you ever witnessed to-day .
” “better not drink more than half a one .
“you keep on talking .
so lovely in the dark .
“it’s all looked after .
i have never married .
what do they say about them at the café ?
” “i didn’t stay to find out .
” “i’d pull yourself together , laddybuck , ” wilson said very quietly .
the lorry had spoiled it .
” “so long , ” said mr .
edge of a patch of mealy-corn and a lion had stalked dan while he sat and nearly gotten him .
" " you ' re drunk and you ' ve had dt ' s .
where have i been ?
” “shut up !
he just brought me here now .
out after dolphin .
” “i’m not scared .
glad to hear you’re doing so good yourself .
something you gentlemen will probably never encounter .
“yes , ” said the tall waiter .
they come out from town and told me the fellow i’d had to cut was all right except for his
' ' all right , ' he said .
" that ' s the hell of it .
' ' wonderful .
” “when did you hear about them ?
how do you know this ?
but this one was swaying its head wildly and could not clear the rocks .
' ' he is no good at all .
i never saw it before it was smacked , he thought .
' ' when the moroccans came through here they raped both his wife and his daughter .
do you think you can get it ?
trail again , chopping our way through with the long brush knives that are called pangas .
" listen , do you know the captain paravicini ?
we trailed fast up the hillside , into the timber , the blood was splashed freely ; made a turn
” “a man ought to be married .
chart .
“i’ll go in a little while .
cruise around by yourself and see what happens to you .
then he picked them up , each head a load , and carried them over to the car .
listen , hank .
the other man in the room tried lying quietly .
he came back to the bar where we were and al chaney asked him to have a drink .
mike was sitting on the bed .
he searched , a little awkwardly , then found it .
” “the tanks were no good there , ” al said .
we were all insured .
i went over to the bed and put my arms around her .
[the three roman soldiers go out the door into the street .
he had seen a mink’s track and shown it to his sister and they had seen tiny rubycrowned kinglets that
m ' cola was watching .
for his arm and i went back to town and they put me under five hundred dollar bond .
" to hell with those sharpshooters .
' ' good-bye and good luck .
' ' good luck , sweet .
" i ' m sorry , fella .
" then i heard brett ' s voice .
“yes , ” said george .
" " what the hell , robert , " i said .
“you had better move over to the other side .
it is almost the look of a very nearly dead rat .
olz didn’t say anything .
it ' s a face any woman would be safe with .
” “what did our mother give them for supper ?
" " well , " i said , " don ' t ask me a lot of fool questions if
he cut nick a big piece .
” “i’ll bet you made him , ” krebs said .
but he not understand .
” “she’s not a bad girl .
" he waited with the line between his thumb and his finger , watching it and the other lines at
anyway i feel better with the sun and for once i do not have to look into it .
he charged blindly into the cape and the boy took him out into the open arena .
” “you don’t wait long when you have an advantage , do you ?
' ' no , ' said karl .
they sat in the big , white car and looked through their glasses at the fiesta .
i can’t remember him except that he gave me an air rifle and an american flag when i came over
” “they’ll make fine tank guys too .
bank before we stuck .
i got out the smith and wesson thirty-eight special i had when i was on the police force up in
a trout had taken him .
she asked .
” there was one in the room i knew besides manolita .
yeah ?
he drove it into the pine tree , holding it close and hitting it gently with the flat of the
“i want to pull my hair back tight and smooth and make a big knot at the back that i
he did not .
up and ran wildly back toward the trench that they had left when they attacked .
that only delayed the presentation of the bill .
hernandez had followed him since he first came out with the muleta .
they never say anything and they ' re always hanging about so .
“did you get the cat ?
“we should have stopped at punta gorda , ” roger said .
“so much better .
“oui , monsieur .
” “that ain’t what i asked you .
" " she was impressed , " mike said .
but you don ' t have to dream about it .
“sailfish is just as good eating as kingfish .
each other .
and a stable boy holding the bridle on each side and walking along , followed the old guy .
anyway his papers were french and they said he was from soissons .
” “i know it’s true because it’s so damned hot and we didn’t get the five thousand .
" " i ' m not a good guy .
' you ' re nice , ' he said .
he closed them firmly so they would take the pain now and would not flinch and watched the sharks come
you on the way up and into the air .
' ' to-morrow , ' garrick said .
“are you a fascist ?
” “you damn crook , ” he said and went over the side , hanging on and then letting go
they did not hurry nor did the _gran maestro_ worry .
the bird chirped and hopped about the cage and the young man looked up at it .
it’s very sad .
they are just murder .
and pop had left , and bringing my mosquito net .
over her head to smother her , one comrade sometimes sitting upon the head .
” “you had the dice there on that last play .
the professionals are very intelligent and these krauts were all professionals ; not the fanatics .
they went off through the trees and then stood at sixty yards , the thin , graceful buck looking back
macomber sat grim and furious .
to have fun together .
i just can’t sleep .
it had a funny name in italian .
fence .
" " it ' s not the same .
suppose they got any hard-boiled eggs here ?
had to wallow against the current and in a deep place , the water piled up on you .
perhaps something can be done with them .
there was another roar from the arena and then applause , prolonged applause , going on and on .
then we missed another .
' _fisi_ , ' m ' cola would say and shake his head in delighted sorrow at there being such
then he took two turns of the harpoon line around the bitt in the bow and laid his head on
it showed very tiny and then made a wide circle and the boys ran out and lit the fires ,
it will do you no good .
of benchley in tyrolean costume , to have him know your name , to call you a poet , to
as they went in , under the light i saw white hands , wavy hair , white faces , grimacing
but i do not like to hear it spoken of either .
but when it won the prize—” “she wants me to help you .
” “i won’t have to quit , ” manuel said .
the opening in the hidden trench into driving flight .
start .
it is much more difficult than poetry .
i knew he’d turn and come for it again .
just the thing we always need in this life .
we used only those as fresh as anything in that market could be fresh and we always asked a german
then i tried several dives .
you got to cut the coleta .
" it ' s too early in the morning .
' ' what ' s the matter with you men ?
no corn meal .
all his weight as ballast and the colonel and the girl had shifted too , under the blanket , with
he was born in _num_ .
' b ' wana simba , by the way , we later found out to be an excellent hunter with
“you make me sick , ” said enrique .
why do they want to make a frontal attack against positions like those ?
” “shut your drunken mouth , ” i told him .
did you get my line , jake ?
it was the one for whom the matador who had lost his nerve had been buying drinks .
" i ' d like to have seen bill knocked down , too .
jim and charley were still in the front room .
he ' s wearing a sweater and an old pair of pants and boxing shoes .
“what’s the matter , old cock ?
while the nigger put in a fresh pan , but it was a long shot .
i could feel it , hot and rubbery against my fingers , and feel the knife push it , but
" " i left them in the wagon at garner ' s .
that means getting up early all right and going to bed early , too .
i ' ve got a hundred and two .
" " i will .
looking , scarred with a badly healed horn wound that the birds had pecked at , his tail thick ,
i mean who really ?
” “listen , baldy , take it easy will you ?
i told him to take the flowers of the pyrenees away and bring me a vieux marc .
the wind blew all the time and there were no flies and no mosquitoes .
" nick ' s father went ahead with the lamp .
” asked the detective sergeant , looking across the bed at the interpreter .
it looks washed up .
it was one of the major subjects and certainly one of the hardest to write truly of , and those
because you ' re not intelligent .
" it ' s good .
finally he sits up .
' ' it cuts pretty thin for sharing , ' the colonel said .
and he answered , ' no , general , i don ' t hear any crickets or seven-year locusts .
" " maybe he is spinning around , " said the interpreter .
gone now .
john said , “where do you think they went , suzy ?
" yes , " says jack .
“why what , dear ?
" i cannot be too far out now , he thought .
i’ll knock your eye teeth down your throat .
steinfelt brought out a bottle and hogan brought in some glasses and everybody had a drink .
into the reeds .
went out .
' doesn ' t he tell us that every night ?
do you mind ?
and third lines ; although such lines were quite untenable , and they should have brought all their guns up
" " you understand ?
i enjoyed what there was very much .
shirt .
“i’ll get him .
so i made a big supper , and when they come already they drank a lot .
zurito watched .
he was a natural welterweight and he’d never gotten fat .
" " i have been in seven wars and four revolutions , " the count said .
a blue suit and he wore a cap as though it was only for travelling .
out through everything to the track .
” “put it under the plate .
i’ll carry the rifle .
late in the fiesta it would not matter what they paid , nor where they bought .
the captain of a liner isn ' t used to scudding that way .
he never got the kid’s goat .
all day and all night .
but i cannot stand to ride along it .
' ' capri bianco , ' the colonel said .
we shook hands .
" won ' t you have another coffee or a liqueur ?
the farmhouse is built on a hill that commands an unobstructed view of havana and the coastal plain to the
the lorry will be in to-night .
” “you’re a pretty bright boy , aren’t you ?
got his , all right .
“then thanks , ” the young man said , not “thank you , ” or “thank you very much ,
he wrote this letter at the club , cold sober , and mailed it to new york asking her to
had seen them .
he was looking for them and , being a hunter , he saw them instantly .
the man with him looked down at the floor .
injustice everywhere .
the rush and the sudden swoop as he dropped down a steep undulation in the mountain side plucked nick’s mind
i went to a hotel in the town where i had stopped before , and they gave me a room
it ' s one of the few things to our credit that we never smacked it , and to their
" " that ' s up to him , " i said .
the hiss of compressed air , administered courteously and free was home which was all oil-stained cement everywhere , all
" " i ' ve got a lot of stuff , " manuel said .
he’d move around fast enough in the ring if he had to , but he wasn’t any too fast on
against a stump to kill it .
the edge of the forest not two miles from camp .
but there was plenty of it in nebraska along the platte .
turner have a drink .
lake , flying very lightly and with flutters and flew down close over the water and then high and turned
of the hills through the pine woods , and then out to the edge of a meadow and down across
chapter xiv maera lay still his head on his arms , his face in the sand .
' don ' t you think it would be good to break more ice around the edges ?
” “you did , ” said the detective .
he was fast on his feet and did his work well and he loved his sisters , who seemed beautiful
“i’ll make a surprise .
look at bill .
quand j ' étais venu ici je disais , oh , my god , what are all the churches ?
' my darling , ' he said .
however it came out seemed to amuse him and he laughed and shook his head .
the afternoon was with them .
" " it would have been a great pleasure .
dick was a halfbreed and many of the farmers around the lake believed he was really a white man .
” “there’s another bottle of beer for you .
jack came over , skipping the rope .
“you’re the most wonderful diver , wemedge , ” kate said , touching his back with her foot .
of tracks and in the high grass and the broken terrain it was difficult to figure just where he had
you’re brave enough now .
" " please sit down , " harris said .
' ' i never thought about it .
when would i be down ?
wounded shot by lieutenant of artillery in first curing post .
“it’s very dangerous to go alone .
” “and drinking .
" " his niece looks after him .
" " come on , " brett said .
” “they all bust their hands on me , ” the little man said .
fuentes was standing with his back against the barrera .
would he remember that and would it make sense in the daylight ?
" " i better go back and see george , " nick said .
" " i suppose we could have gone .
' and you put it nicely .
from as far a distance as he figured he could hit the calf of the leg without hitting bone and
take with him .
" brett folded the heavy cape .
" " it is fine for hunting and fishing , " i said .
he had dropped dung wherever he climbed and all of it was blood-spotted .
" she wants to see the bull-fighters close by , " mike said .
and help the girl down .
we can head for there this afternoon with a light outfit , send the lorries back , and karl and
“aunty’s asleep .
the fiesta was solid and unbroken , but the motor-cars and tourist-cars made little islands of onlookers .
somewhere , in each boat , there was a sack with one or two live mallard hens , or a
“i guess that’s better .
he did not want to go down the stream any further today .
” “ayee !
the brown , triangular fin and the sweeping movements of the tail .
there are many big ducks .
i couldn’t do any good with the grains pole and i took off my clothes and stood and took a
and i say no , my god , no !
the bone of his nose showing and one ear torn and had taken the rifle from david without speaking and
“why don’t you be friendly and cooperative .
“no you don’t .
“that’s right , ” said nick .
but i’m nervous from hearing him roar all night .
“perforated as it is .
” i gave him one and we sat and waited for it to get dark .
“how about you , jerry ?
' ' i couldn ' t believe it .
buildings and the streets of the town .
" " hullo !
they just want the old tank ahead to give them some cover while they go .
i wish i had bomb to throw to make suddenly a surprise .
; the smell of dirty sweat and poverty and drunkenness at the café des amateurs and the whores at the
" " i would , " the boy said .
' ' i hunt ducks day after tomorrow before first light in a botte in the marshes .
people got on and off .
he turned in the hotel .
bastard and why can i not suspend this trade of arms and be a kind and good man as i
” in the vacant lot the boys were still playing baseball and it was quite cool now .
and onto the dam .
” pinin went out , leaving the door open .
the colonel .
up the street were other dead .
it was only the last few days he made me nervous but i didn’t want to say anything for fear
they came alongside .
“shut the door , can’t you ?
each sardine was hooked through both eyes so that they made a half-garland on the projecting steel .
“i didn’t either .
they had the car surrounded so we could not move .
" " come on , " said robert .
' the boys came dancing , crowing , and beating time and chanting something from down in their chests that
" " i ' m not too old , " manuel said .
nick was shocked .
he turned and locked the door .
" " sure , " said bill .
" put it away , " he said .
the doctor’s eyes were red and the lids swollen , almost shut from tear gas .
difficult to see ; that you must find the next little black spot perhaps twenty yards away , one holding
' " ' it was very wrong , ' said the priest .
i go the other way .
" listen , robert , dear .
bite it off just like it was a grape !
“in the report to the commune she died of heart trouble .
no , i ' ll be in the chapel doing what i can .
the darkness .
the padrone made her feel very small and at the same time really important .
but you have to think out something , mr .
, and i was tired of looking at both of these young people .
' ' i ' m not .
' after that he can roast in hell and we will revere his memory .
” “fuck off , ” i said .
he’s a good man papa .
” “he probably does .
at any woman in the pension .
' i want to be like me only much , much better and i want to have you love me
" i say , jake , do you mind if i drink that bottle of yours ?
' ' my colonel , you know that in a great hotel , wine must cost money .
' it was a miserable view of venice now and he always disliked this causeway except that you made such
some we come to later .
we had several fines after the coffee , and i said i must be going .
' ' i see there are things we do not agree on .
it was crowded and hot from the stove and full of stale smoke .
” some eddy .
" we stopped in front of a frame house .
its wide beam was playing over the weeds , where the girl , maria , lay hidden .
of his flat-topped head as his nose came out of water and lay against the fish .
" " i didn ' t see it all .
“i know it , ” bill said .
the heavy trees on our side without showing more than a glimpse of his bulk in the reeds .
but they are all big ducks and fat and they will be good eating .
" let a little mount to your head .
“no , thanks , ” i said .
it was these sharks that would cut the turtles ' legs and flippers off when the turtles were asleep on
' ' the memsahib has the best lion , brother .
“go on , ” the young man said softly .
” “i didn’t do it to be good and sound .
over the side .
he did not say anything after that .
it was really an awfully clean hotel .
did you notice it ?
' ' i try to .
and the wind blowing a gale , and then those teal coming on the table , smoking hot and with
“he adores you , ” i said .
” asked another flyer .
' hit .
brett looked disgusted .
” he grinned .
' he ' s a wonderful rhino , ' p .
he made the klaxon again a little later , and it fooled me the second time .
fifteen years ago they said if you wanted to see belmonte you should go quickly , while he was still
” “that’s the way the sound throws here at night .
abraham lincoln was a faggot .
' ' i love you , ' the colonel said quite formally .
” “because you had the drag on and didn’t have the rod in the socket .
" " i know the story .
she ' s a nice girl , " i said .
all trains finish there .
the men on top of the wall leaned back and pulled up the door of the corral .
' ' awful , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
“your night is my night , ” blindy said and the young fellow went on playing but he wasn’t doing
cohn was lying , face down , on the bed in the dark .
were made of gunny-sacking , came striding up to the bridge .
" " yes , we were up early .
polite and interested in what was the matter , and sat in the machines that were to make so much
that is criminal .
from his shoulders .
” “you said that before , ” al told him coldly .
" " that ' s right , " george said .
' no end .
guy said .
he was already further out than he had hoped to be at this hour .
she smiled better on one side than on the other and turned the good side toward us .
” “no , ” said another .
“you don’t need to worry , ” nick said .
thicket , the little hills rising above it , and all along the road we passed groups of people making
bicycle for a blanket and pulled it up under my chin ?
” “sure , ” he said , looking at her .
' he says why did you shoot him twice ?
' they have a certain effect on me , too , the way cipriani makes them .
porter .
you don’t have to answer if you don’t want to .
though the fiesta were being staged in her honor , and she found it pleasant and amusing .
" " well , good-night , mrs .
“that’s a tank , ” i said .
south .
the door of the house where the boy lived was unlocked and he opened it and walked in quietly with
“that pink head isn’t going to make sense .
been there .
he went over and sat on the logs .
above the stove there was a wooden-handled dish mop stuck in the edge of one of the rafters .
' the whole back of the car ' s full of them .
' ' _bathi_ , ' said molo again softly , but insistently .
close to the window you could smell the inside of the house .
” “that’s a lot of dough .
it was simply a splendid portrait painted , as they sometimes are , in our time .
not with my own true love .
in pyjamas by the fire , and karl not yet in .
if no one came for them they would be left to waterlog and rot on the beach .
but it was not quite complete and the colonel knew it and he thought : why am i always a
it looked now as though he were moving into a great canyon of clouds and the wind had dropped .
we , i suppose , i said .
“no , i feel fine now .
savages with a pompous headman who wore the only pair of shorts among them .
sound .
” oh , the dirty bastards !
she was cool and fresh in the hot night .
i ' ll ask alberto .
n ' dio .
it seemed out of place to think of consequences during the fiesta .
it may not mean a thing .
" " pinin !
the woman standing in the door of the wine-shop looked at us as we passed .
that was the year they shot the wild turkey as he crossed the road that early morning coming out of
" no one should be alone in their old age , he thought .
on the right was the parc montsouris .
he handed me the meat which was wrapped in two envelopes which had brought copies of the spur to the
“absolutely , ” said harris .
john told him .
on two hooks built into the wall of the sunken barrel .
tent .
" you ought to .
“but her screams are not important .
you when you came out and sat on the bank .
once he stood up and urinated over the side of the skiff and looked at the stars and checked his
it was a beech wood and the trees were very old .
her eyes were shiny .
it had not been engraved in the same place it was purchased .
' ' oh , you ' re nice to say it .
i’ll make it downstairs .
nick .
” he laughed , then grinned and tapped his stomach .
” “it makes me feel strange .
down beside me on the floor and put his arm around me and says , “come on , joe ,
” zurito looked at his face .
beyond was a green field and a stream .
please eat them .
“what you say , harry ?
" we walked back down the road from roncesvalles with harris between us .
i see we have things in common .
" un français de la californie !
it is only by hazard that a writer makes money although good books always make money eventually .
she could not have known my address .
one of the maids brought the bill .
" " the great italian sense .
' manamouki kubwa sana , ' he said very sorrowfully and patiently .
' by god , yes , ' i said .
they haven ' t had a military thinker since du picq .
' you want to get in fast and do the dirty and get out fast .
' what the hell ' s been keeping you , jackson ?
the marble-topped tables and the white wicker chairs were gone .
' don ' t try anything fancy , ' pop said .
” “i’ll have corned beef hash , browned , with two poached eggs , ” helena said .
" " must clean myself .
i’m not drunk .
lap .
it’s a step up i guess .
" " yes , " i said ; " something doing all the time .
' ' hell , ' the colonel said .
don ' t know why it should make you feel bad .
it made another big flapjack and one smaller one .
" we call anything a bugger , " nick said .
" where ' s brett ?
“say , ” he said .
he was there , in the good place .
“he would have left you too .
i was standing up watching for a tail to show .
” “like two against one is nigger fun .
with the maid holding the umbrella over her , she walked along the gravel path until she was under their
' what do you want to eat , daughter ?
he said , ' oh , i asked you to do it .
' i respect it more than anything except good , honest fliers .
” the cook turned away .
it ' s that i paid the accounts out of my own money while you were away and now i
i noticed the ribbons .
i never really got to know paris well , because i just came in about once or twice a week
he could have wired for money .
" " i haven ' t time to argue , " mr .
“you can get work on the ferry .
“did you tell him about it ?
something inside nick had gone a long way away .
there are but three of the two hundred and fifty of them left alive and they are for the town
“there is no such city .
" i went out just for that fight .
" " i don ' t feel too good about it , " jack said .
' " ' ja , i loved her , ' olz said .
“and that’s an attack ?
it all amused her .
' we ' ll be some other famous characters .
i thought that idea would come to him by itself , but i do not believe it ever did .
“well , that’s one thing you never had to worry about , ” john said .
he took a folded ten-thousand kronen note out of a leather pocketbook and unfolded it .
' he ' s got a grown-up family in the native reserve .
' whatever you say , ' he said .
then he shouldered the mast and started to climb .
i put my arm around her and she smelled of armpit sweat and dust and old black clothes and her
” “adams .
" i moved him then .
" who ?
” “i wash the glass and the ice .
“oh , i keep in touch with them , ” hogan said .
" " in france that wouldn ' t make any difference .
' ' it ' s wonderful , ' p .
they’re fine kids but i want a boy .
” now he was hurt again , he who had thought that his heart was dry , and that nothing
“but i got tired .
and the other was telephoning in french for them to send the ambulance to take him out to maisons .
i couldn ' t tell you that in new york .
interesting .
' that is only one of a thousand , ' he said .
' he opened the breech and took out the two big · _num_ no .
” “sure we will .
you can give him a tip if you want .
you get your good dope always from the people and when you can ' t talk with people and can
“you come by tonight and i’ll have some stuff made up for you .
that is the kind of season you have and then you talk to me about running your own business .
what kind of a licence will we have ?
" that kike !
" drunk all day and spend all their time beating their poor old mothers .
" " hogan was here .
i could only see four .
” zurito asked , big and looming beside manuel in the dark .
” “it’s blowing too hard .
' i wouldn ' t take him unless you want him for meat .
and turned away and shook his head and laughed , ashamed even of the hyena ; the pinnacle of hyenic
some one insisted on giving her a glass .
“nice cabins .
the head skin and put the head upon his own head and we started across through the rocks and up
it was here dan had sat on a haystack one time waiting for a kudu to feed out into the
” “he would make a very good member .
shark ' s head at a spot where the line between his eyes intersected with the line that ran straight
" " you didn ' t , " said brett .
madame fontan looked sad .
when his face was cleaned he washed his right hand in the water over the side and then let it
there were wide fire-gaps cut through the pines , and you could look up them like avenues and see wooded
but from his home town , and he wanted to be the big , generous matador with a fellow townsman
” soldier would ask .
" " huh !
it had turned out a good trip all right , finally , even though it had looked plenty bad plenty
doctor .
“you can see it in about a mile .
he walked as though all his insides were going to fall out .
" " let me get four fresh ones .
” i walked after them down the aisle .
“would you like a cup of this coffee , mister adams ?
“moi , je suis la france , ” red said .
_] _ _num_ d soldier_--that false alarm !
' ' next saturday is a movable feast , daughter .
the rest of the time it was spoiled by the sun .
some were naked except for a greasy cloth knotted over one shoulder , and carried bows and sealed quivers of
as flying fish left the water and the hissing that their stiff set wings made as they soared away in
when the sun was down they all moved out into the current .
” “well you going to take her ?
it was so far away i couldn ' t tell .
" you ' re going good , " zurito said .
in the roaring of wilson’s gun , saw fragments like slate burst from the huge boss of the horns ,
i tell you they are worth nothing and i know .
“good-by , ” we said .
be a hell of a tide to-day , he thought .
“that’s all .
” he had called the young gentleman caro several times and nothing had happened .
you want to watch that .
“it’s too late in the season now and they don’t carry over .
“we couldn’t leave tracks going into it from the main road , ” he told his sister .
write .
turn to your left here and we ' ll run along the canal .
we found blood again .
long .
she said , ‘hon , take these little old drops .
" " up to paris .
” nick’s father went ahead with the lamp .
i would dine there again some time and he would be glad to see me , and would want me
the river in the dark , and i turned in early .
not to me .
the news is hardly exact .
” “i haven’t thought about him .
at school in france the boys told me you can ' t live with forty-four degrees .
“that irishman could never sleep .
' " " did you get any money ?
” “i believe him , ” said cayetano softly .
' ' hapana , buffalo !
too tired .
they can take my body .
blindy had run him out but he had no way of noticing it because the fellow didn’t say anything ,
he liked their bobbed hair and the way they walked .
” “i am very reliable , ” the interpreter said .
then they put whiskey in the wine .
bottle from inside his smock , and handed it to me .
but i made him give me two hundred .
” “well , ” i said , “everybody’s got to get it sometime .
' then move a great amount .
i could go without sleeping , he told himself .
he had slim , handsome legs with well-turned ankles on the style of babe ruth ' s and i remember
curses at the guide who was striding ahead .
someone might take him , in a short bout .
but they were at lunch , and we did not want to bother them , so after the military cemetery
belmonte did not talk .
michael ' s the best dancer i know .
' ' we ' ll go to the top of the hill with you , ' pop said and we
” “never ?
i told romero how much i liked his work , and he was very pleased .
" i was crazy .
don’t you kill him for me .
“i’m a different man , james , ” he said to the barman .
' yes , ' he agreed .
it was high and dark on both sides of the track .
the english spoken language--the upper classes , anyway--must have fewer words than the eskimo .
and never properly loved actress and he thought of her wonderful hands and her so transformable face , that was
it was fine climbing in the cool fresh morning and very different from toiling up this same trail last evening
he stirred it and drank it down , sweet , hot , and warming in his empty stomach .
i got on an s bus and rode down to the madeleine , standing on the back platform .
there was an iron pot of stew .
do you think it’s true ?
” the secretary said .
they came in well , with treachery speaking to them .
and about the other .
_num_ st soldier—you been out here too long .
them and resent the new things .
and bed , he thought .
' ' i ought to tell it to dante if he was around , ' the colonel , suddenly gone
it’s his own fault .
' ' one day ' s march .
“do you come here to the café often ?
we stopped .
they were very tiny but he knew they were nourishing and they tasted good .
the pair stared at him with the bad manners of their kind and he saluted , lightly and said to
his vileness came on from a sickness .
looking across the stream to where the gun-bearers were skinning out the lion he could see that she had been
” “yes , i do .
” “you’re doing all right .
“that’s a minute .
" yes , don ' t i , " says jack .
" we ' ve been thrown out , " edna said .
, who stood , dropping his head , pawing , unable to make up his mind to charge .
“how is it , wemedge ?
hurricane victims , damnificados del ciclón , would then add a new tension to local politics , already taut enough
the young man projected from the side of the car like the figurehead of a ship .
you haven’t been drunk .
we quarrel and that makes the time pass .
“what will you do when the war is over if it is over ?
' they started to walk , arm through arm , and as they went up the first bridge the wind
he asked the portrait .
at the station i did not tip the porter more than i should because i did not think i would
_num_ st soldier—she’s a nice-looker .
” “what makes you think so ?
” “i have just been called up for this war .
" " oh , i was in california .
they sprinted , were beaten , laughed , and then we were leaning out , waving , and they stood
' ' we ' ll get sable too , you ' ll see .
” “we could have tried the other two .
” “they catch them .
“thirst is fear .
' ' some people don ' t understand the torcello part .
” “not drinking .
“i know , ” i said , “but they photographed very well .
at all and had to cut up one of the trout i had caught and use him for bait .
by then the sun was up and the road was becoming populous with travellers , both white-clothed and naked ,
absolute determination that he should marry her .
they only looked down and went on towards the open sea .
" " did you hear that , henry ?
well it’s just a bit off from what i’d describe as typical for this time of year .
never tell anyone anything ever .
" i ' m not saying he ' s not right , you know .
i’ll go to the spring and wash and come and help .
he was now dressed to go home .
" " you wouldn ' t like to play with me ?
this was the third year he had found bait at this same place and he had always replaced the log
" " i ' ll have one with you , " i said .
i’m always in .
the low soft voice of the negro was talking .
he only left yesterday .
“what can we bring you ?
they stripped her clean .
an opalescent milkiness .
” “send it up to the room , ” jack says .
' please let me fill your glass and you , please look at the light on the ceiling .
' he said and shook his head .
mummy knew him .
he came out unendingly and water poured from his sides .
they rushed it , and of icers came out alone and worked on it .
” “get in and see .
the _gran maestro_ served adroitly and with respect both for the food , and those that were to eat it
” i asked the spanish boy .
' ' sure , but you can ' t make a mistake .
have you anything else to say ?
“maybe we’ll have something good tomorrow .
” the sun came out .
but he ' s spooked this country to hell .
" go sit at it , " bill said .
“i can’t bring you the bottle .
i could kill one alone , without pop along , i would feel good about it for a long time
one of the crap shooters reached up and cut a slice of ham .
fifty grand “how are you going yourself , jack ?
“i don’t know , ” one of the men said .
“sit down , gentlemen .
little hunt now ?
” “why continue ?
” his wife said .
” “i’ll be all right .
” “did you recognize him ?
' have we plenty of salt ?
we respect them more than all others and i hope we understand them a little .
evans ?
" i want you to meet a friend , " zizi said .
he swallowed a little , rinsed his mouth , spat the water , took his cape , and went back
' ' say once again that you love me .
la france sportive .
i had one good long swallow and then someone jostled me so that i spilled pan of the glass of
in the dark he kneeled down and took a drink from the spring .
la chasse et la pêche , " fontan said .
and dusty after the hills , and the picture that remains is of sitting against an ant hill with ,
” “we’ll come back before we go away .
mist all the time .
' ' then learn it the hard way .
" " clean through .
the trout was steady in the moving stream , resting on the gravel , beside a stone .
below that is the secret place .
" my head ' s a little wobbly .
he went out to the kitchen and came back with two glasses and a pitcher of water .
isn ' t it amazing ?
" he drank the coffee .
" twelve pesetas .
a herd of zebra , white against the green of the bush .
' carroll was the man ' s name .
it was difficult .
" my god , " georgette said .
" " yes , about my going to england .
he felt sleepy himself .
listen , " he said to george , " tell the nigger to come out here .
one of them , a gypsy , serious , aloof , and dark-faced , he liked the look of .
seems like when they get started they don’t leave a guy nothing .
question .
“juma hit him in the head .
" i haven ' t seen you since i ' ve been back , " brett said .
kenwood’s where we used to go for sunday dinner up at the lake .
” “and where was that ?
his lip was cut and he sucked it .
there isn’t very much , roger .
” “but you don’t know about it yet , ” the manager said .
if he looked too steadily they were gone .
not that dreadful talking kind .
“it’s too late , ” he said .
” “what is there to do ?
when he went away only little girls wore their hair like that or girls that were fast .
' ' what about the buff ?
' ' i can do without it , ' the girl said .
you remember the harbor .
i suppose you know why they call him turd-face .
dogs had eaten part of him .
' i ' m so pleased , ' the girl said .
much drinking .
” “you must have some lead .
“good-night , ” the woman said .
' i was just kidding you , ' i said in english .
six thousand miles on it .
we always preferred one that we called the medium-brown .
" let ' s get out of here .
“the young gentleman’s father is the world’s champion .
in the eyes , fiercely .
” “don’t the other waiters recognize him ?
“carl ain’t no good with girls , ” frank said .
left already for the gran via restaurant .
i’m no doctor but i know that .
he cannot tell a lie .
they would come , later , in the dark ; but then it would be too late .
he pushed the magazine full of the heavy yellow shells and pumped them out again .
he swallowed the bait and they pulled his stomach out and he came to the top and died .
your father can’t read his star if it’s been mussed .
" " you have everything i have .
feel that ?
“yes , ” said mr .
“he’s a pretty tough-looking boy , ” jack says to me .
" " i never felt that bad .
' i love you , portrait , very much .
only that ' s an airplane .
there never was another part of paris that he loved like that , the sprawling trees , the old white
the left horn , lance himself short and straight , lower the muleta so the bull would follow it ,
the point of a ridge .
with the ax he slit off a bright slab of pine from one of the stumps and split it into
there is an actual harlot .
that ' s the way you work it .
pinin came in with more wood for the stove .
die , and often lay in bed at night by myself , afraid to die and wondering how i would
' since then , there was scant friendship between them and the colonel enjoyed trying to take the morning paper
but that damned sable bull .
' can ' t shoot her .
” “cochon , ” he said delicately , hesitating to use such a strong word .
their room was on the fourteenth floor and it was not very cool .
then there are no more .
have made salt , he thought .
” “leche !
felt quite sure that he would never die .
” part ii short stories published in books or magazines subsequent to “the first forty-nine” one trip across you know
and i’ll do it and then everything will be fine .
but he wanted the cigarettes so badly that it did not matter .
how many winters had he lived in the vorarlberg and the arlberg ?
pepé ?
' ' i could try to let it get that long if you want .
try and stop it .
place like sheboygan .
' you forgive me , daughter .
" they may not come here for three or four days now if they start on parties at san sebastian
common visits to selborne , and bishop stanley has given us a valuable , although popular , familiar history of
he tried to force the fish out into the current .
as he jumped the bull ' s tail rose and he charged .
he had a good driver and he relaxed completely in the front seat of the car and looked out at
“who is it ?
that ' s the only thing that is going to be difficult about you .
" he kneeled against the bow and , for a moment , slipped the line over his back again .
" " we can have everything .
the rains were moving up on us .
to the metal plaque that marked the black stripe of his yardage , the pros were silent and watching .
” “come in , ” the adjutant heard the major say , “and shut the door .
“talk to me , bright boy , ” max said .
the battalion was along the bank to the left .
i remember the snakes burning in the fire in the back-yard .
but some time give me something lasting that i can wear and be happy each time i wear it .
" " let ' s eat .
salauds .
” “never .
“it is closed until two , ” someone passing in the street said scornfully .
its name was _el ordine militar , nobile y espirituoso de los caballeros de brusadelli_ .
marty was the one who seemed to write and to have kept her taste for the high excitement of their
sometime we’ll go out and get some .
” “i don’t care where we go , ” i said .
“oh , wemedge .
" " you know , " brett said , " it ' s quite true .
“who’s out in the kitchen ?
by god , he was a big one .
let me tell you something .
" the waitress left the table and went over to the bar .
ever since i was a little girl i’ve wanted to be a saint .
man leaned over the stern and lifted the burnished gold fish with its purple spots over the stern .
jack was feeling pretty good .
” “pretty sure .
he explained again to me .
it had rained the day before , but now it was clearing and visibility was good and you could see
not counting possibles .
the head was swaying and i could see the ears forward and twitching , and see the little pig eyes
he was not lonely after this last time as he had nearly always been no matter with whom or where
there are hundreds of them .
him on the legs with rods and all , in a procession , trying to get him toward the bull
' ' the box with the negro in it is on top of the cash register .
” “i can’t , ” he said .
first class compartment in the paris-lausanne-milan express in the gare de lyon while she went out on the quai to
“today’s the first time any have lit on the ground .
' you can leave the key at the office .
“you would land them wherever your best judgment dictated .
“not as much as i love you though .
was his real enemy and he followed their pace and tried to move through and out of the sleep that
like a butterfly and a tank .
certainly any small acts of kindness you can do in life are worth doing .
“do a noiseless one , wemedge , ” odgar said .
' ' i couldn ' t agree more fully , general .
" " come in , jake .
” “i don’t think i’m going to draw it , ” al said .
this changed him so that he was not so pleasant to have around .
the breeze had risen steadily and was blowing strongly now .
” “let’s get back to alcalá , ” one flyer said .
if my fiancé had not gotten himself shot it would have been all right .
" as an aid to memory , " he said .
" " well , i never cared for it , myself .
' ' did you think i was a snob because i come from an old family ?
he shot twice over the nigger’s head , coming on , and once low .
” “good-bye , fred .
that was where vicente and ignacio were killed .
‘oh , lord , may he hit it out of the lot !
the bull was suspicious .
it had been our first camp in africa and the trees were as big , as spreading , and as
“here comes the memsahib , ” he said .
side and a circle of hills at its upper end where another valley went off to the left .
he ran his finger down the four typewritten names and prices .
first line did not hold .
they came out onto the gallows through a door in the wall .
and into the open park country .
don ' t know where he got it all .
after they’ve been hit once they take a hell of a lot of killing .
' ' i don ' t think he ' s well now and he doesn ' t feel himself .
but now i hate it .
that must be why the animals that lived in swamps were built the way they were , nick thought .
flights which were broken so that you had to walk carefully on the edges as you climbed so that you
birds .
" oh , go to the select .
ranging from the comic to the serious and the macabre .
don’t ask me .
it must have been pleasant for him to see her looking so lovely , and know he had been away
' in swahili .
“he placed the pistol right against the man’s chest when he fired .
i was feeling better , much better .
” “i don’t think the vehicle is shot up badly .
the only thing i ever really liked to do with you i can’t do now .
pulling with all his strength , the fish pulled part way over and then righted himself and swam away .
then they sat at a table placed directly behind the late flit king , who lay on the floor looking
but i ' d be as scared of snakes if we did it every night for a year .
" " never going to get tight any more .
this was the main thing he had learned so far .
” “do you ever read what this fellow brisbane writes ?
the sud express for the night , and went into the bar of the hotel for a cocktail .
” “they aren’t really drops , ” nick told her .
became too broken , nicholas adams saw what had happened by the position of the dead .
that’s what they do in england .
to hell with women , anyway .
" i was up at henry ' s , " nick said , " and two fellows came in and
but the trail went on , where there was little grass now , and trailing was much slower and more
" " i wanted to come , " cohn said , " but i thought i ought to bring them
' ' well , i guess you weren ' t so damned bad off then .
petrol case and drank a whisky and water while i waited for the roman to come back .
' ' back there , ' waving his arm .
” she growled at him and they all roared without laughter .
' ' if we have any luck the day after to-morrow , we ' ll get plenty .
” “after the fight , ” i said .
it’s better at the finish of the meal .
" " i ' m coming over some night .
” “get dressed then .
we were also requested not to enter too rapidly as the general leclerc was to take the city .
it felt cool as water and the breeze cooled my skin through the wet shirt .
it made him rather vain of his bridge game , and he talked several times of how a man could
" " what did you say ?
he remembered the good times with them all , and the quarrels .
he said izzarra was made of the flowers of the pyrenees .
finally , he did get hit properly and for good .
" that the train is coming in five minutes .
" " we ' ll get one on the way back .
that we were always trying to get shells for , strapped to his leg .
“i’m very excited .
“you all laugh but there’s nothing funny .
' better .
” “no , ” said the big one .
he was holding the spoon and sort of poking at the grape-fruit with it .
" let ' s all go over to the iruña .
“to hell with it , i feel clean .
everything would be in the thick cover now .
' ' _domenica del corriere_ or _tribuna illustrata_ ?
' ' but this country is washed out .
it was very hot climbing back up the sandy ravine and i was glad to lean my back against the
fast as any black horse could go with the jock flogging hell out of him with the gad and they
he did not think about the sword , not about killing the bull .
splayfoot splayzey .
' he was pleased and excited by the sight of game .
it ' s true , too .
" little boys always know what they want to do , " he said .
" " i don ' t know , " solly says .
” from the top of the fence he saw the roll of the country and the dark timber by their
' it doesn ' t bother me .
it is humiliating before others to have a diarrhoea from ptomaine poisoning or to vomit from it .
” “worse probably .
' ' i don ' t talk like georgie patton , ' the colonel told her .
in a trench dug in snow , high in the mountains , wearing an alpini hat with an eagle feather
nick moved the match quickly up to it .
most of those mules that i saw dead were along mountain roads or lying at the foot of steep declivities
“want some of this , ghee ?
there was a heaviness , a power not to be held , and then the bulk of him , as
very happy .
bill was gone .
they were so close you could throw a broken tile or a piece of mortar from the smashed apartment house
" pedro romero leaned forward .
" a way you ' ll never be the attack had gone across the field , been held up by
" " oh , go to hell , cohn , " mike called from the table .
getting the zebra was no fun ; the plain was dull , now that the grass had dried , hot
not be seen .
" thank you , " he said .
" " eat an egg .
he has not given me any word .
through the trees it was a faded yellow .
“not much .
you know i miss a lot , jerry .
i know that , " he said .
” my old man says , leaning over close so nobody can hear .
” from then he started to take a beating .
" " thanks , i will then .
, up and out into the open between the two mountains and on , half a mile , to a
red sticks , one in each hand , held by the fingers , points straight forward .
' the colonel said nothing , because he was assisting , or had made an act of presence , at
nobody , he said to himself and to the portrait .
pole and i couldn’t break it .
" he remembers everything that ' s happened .
leg was stuck straight out to one side of the seat where compton sat .
' if you ' d read it , though , i ' ll send for it .
oh .
” i sat down and opened the pirate book and commenced to read , but i could see he was
' i knew he must be serious on something besides kudu .
” “you weren’t bad .
i’m not any rummy either .
i don’t want to wake up twice .
the bull was on top of him .
me instead of being eighteen solid stone blocks away .
telling them to forward all mail and telegrams for me to this address .
he had a smile which was reserved for such occasions .
' ' i don ' t like that word your sex .
they handed the sword to romero , and carrying it blade down , the muleta in his other hand ,
” “but listen , caro , you must have piombo .
they looked very small .
boy , what ' s your name , giorgio ?
the beans and spaghetti warmed .
” “i’m not an anatomist , ” he said .
the captain couldn ' t have known it was quicksand when she struck unless he knew these waters .
home is going to be where you will go from now on .
they came to the post-office near where she lived up-town in new york , and the duty was never exorbitant
beyond the bridge were hills .
in the morning i bought three tickets for the bus to burguete .
inside the _lit salon_ compartment the porter had pulled down the three beds from inside the wall and prepared them
about half-way i changed to the big gun and kept the safety off and my hand over the trigger guard
that ' s where you were .
one of the sixty-four bottles dan had brought from the german trading station .
” “you tell him .
it’s a good thing she likes trout .
but we will fish together now for i still have much to learn .
no offence if you ' re a colonel yourself .
” “oh boy , ” the man said .
white , low fence , the load of the first barrel swung into him and the load from the second
, wholesome looking woman who was with him .
” enrique removed his apron and citing the imaginary bull he sculptured four perfect , languid gypsy verónicas and ended
“a fire shows a long way at night .
" one of them ' s charley blackman , from chicago , " bill said .
" " i hadn ' t , " john said .
indian .
he ' s only big .
the boulevard was busy with trams and people going to work .
there is dr .
' campi !
we ' re just starting lunch .
” a train trip my father touched me and i was awake .
" walk up to the hotel with me , jake .
' _please_ , good luck .
clouds and the wanderobo-masai and i looked at this kudu , measured his horns , smelled the fine smell of
there ' s a farmer comes to see what ' s the matter , and we give him something to
" " i don ' t know whether you like flowers , sir , " the count said , "
open .
he felt topping about it .
it was difficult to stand or walk on the glassy surface and the red dog slipped and slithered and i
landscape with figures it was very strange in that house .
until he woke .
nick sat down beside the fire and lifted the frying pan off .
' ' lodges and tourist camps , ' the colonel said .
now , knowing how it had all been , even remembering the earliest times before things had gone badly was
“i’ll make him jump out of the ring .
then one time , i was back as far as noghera and it was clear and cold like to-day ,
" " another bright boy , " al said .
” “you can’t tell about the weather , ” jack says .
comforts unknown and he had worked hard ever since he could remember .
i would see him there some time .
we had all thought he was a german who had stolen civilian clothes , but he turned out to be
as we started forward the sable jumped and ran past us , crossing the trail ahead .
“i won’t leave you and you’ll behave your self .
the picador kicked in his spurs , leaned forward and shook his lance at the bull .
“steve ketchel , ” one of the blondes said in a high voice as though the name had pulled a
i just meant the coloring of their skin through the trees .
we found blood at once and it led off to the left , across the watercourse and up the hillside
“i’m staying here .
' yes , ' he agreed , in swahili .
it was absolutely topping .
perhaps he had never existed .
[the second roman soldier smiles at the hebrew wine-seller .
and i don’t want to wear you out .
" but when i came downstairs he was dressed , sitting by the fire , looking a very sick and
on the other side , keeping under the edge of a fold of the valley into the shelter of the
" " i only give you fifteen cents , then , " said fontan .
the piave .
the portrait had been deframed and was placed on two chairs where he could see it from the bed .
' i have made the connection .
" " i ' ll go see him , " nick said to george .
how should a woman act when she discovers her husband is a bloody coward ?
he certainly was treating walcott rough .
" we had a very fine room and in the fall the country was lovely .
as you were , ' he added .
' very fast and he and m ' cola were frantic that i should not shoot .
he would like to help him though .
' i ' d say you were wrong , daughter .
he’d have nothing more to do with the woman and macomber would get over that too .
” “it’s hard to say , ” nick adams said .
looked a moderately prosperous business man .
jerk and then he had another good holt and they were down on the ice now and willie sawyer was
he could and allowed himself to be pulled forward against the wood so that the boat took the strain as
' ' no , it was quite pleasant .
when we got in to the dock and the nigger was standing there waiting , i said , “what about
" " i wasn ' t cross , " i said .
” we smoked skilfully in the dark .
if i think of her and of her only , everything will be all right .
were coming , they would be on it .
“who is that man ?
only gun , my small savings and my wife ; also my poems .
_] [_outside in the street .
“i don’t know , ” nick said , getting wood for a fire .
macleish contents after the storm a clean , well-lighted place the light of the world god rest you merry ,
” “well , you’re a coward .
i had read the accounts of his two appearances in madrid in the bull-fight papers , so i was all
they can follow us if they get in to-morrow night .
" " that ' s the name for it .
times and enthusiastic still , but shaking with cold .
there was a low house painted yellow with willows all around it and a low stable and there was a
“i want to handle them .
” all the happiness went from madame fontan’s face .
he was not thinking about this , but about a horse .
he used to be a marvelous pigeon shot and i used to see him at shoots .
” “what about the other two ?
certainly better looking than the shakespearean character , and the colonel had fought as many , or more times than
what do you think it ' s meant to have that damned jew about , and mike the way he
" i ' ll be out there , " retana said .
“i was afraid of just that all night , ” she said .
then she studied the back of her head and her neck .
“you don’t really mind if we talk about it do you ?
and go back to the crap game .
" i shouldn ' t think so .
i’ll hit you with a bottle full of champagne wine .
pursuing them with your hands or trying to hit them with a bat .
in the south of france without any purses , or betting or crowd or anything just to keep the breed
“it’s all right .
“can i ride down to the store with you ?
" " that ' s right .
” the little man’s wrist was thick and the muscles bulged above the bone .
also it was not intelligent to think all fifty-year-old colonels would not understand their language .
, ' and both be writers .
” “of course not , ” said mr .
please forgive me .
it hit him again badly .
“you better sit here and be comfortable , ” he said .
it was a swell fourth of july .
” retana said nothing but looked at manuel across the big desk .
just like they’re jealous of us .
" " je veux aller tout seul , " andré said shrilly .
john said she loved culture like a lumberjack loved peerless , the great chewing tobacco .
" he wanted you to drink his wine , " madame fontan said .
they were just quite good books .
" " if you talk like that you must go out .
threw things down into the bull ring .
" " tell him to tell the truth , that he is going to die , " the detective said
" " she ' s thirty-four now .
you know the french police .
“i better go find hogan , ” i said .
too dark to shoot .
the crashing , blasting thing that had destroyed him .
“before they smell up the cabin .
i hadn’t figured on all this wait .
i didn’t know how i could feel any worse .
” “i got to get educated , ” george said .
poor cayetano , he ' s having a dreadful time and he doesn ' t make a sound .
' just then the lobster was served .
' i ' d like to be your honey dog if i knew how to do it .
, the morning breeze chilled me and i had to put on my raincoat while we glassed the country .
it has destroyed the best .
there were a few platoons , no companies , and , the colonel drought , i barely have a squad
the log was just awash in the lake .
places .
" " you know , " brett said , " he ' d only been with two women before .
your first seeing of a country is a very valuable one .
in the pine woods a black dirty column of smoke began to rise and was then blown sideways by the
” “you have to learn to help it , ” mr .
“no , probably i won’t be .
called lett .
” “listen , ” the detective said .
' i ' m just kidding you .
the wanderobo-masai was useless as a blue-jay and i had m ' cola give him the big rifle to carry
” “yes , but it’s a long time .
then it crashed again and he felt the blow as it hit his lower ribs and ripped on through ,
corto y derecho he lanced himself on the bull .
i’d half rolled , dove , and then pulled up out of it and i was looking back and down
but i like was better .
not to your friend .
they swung their weight against the shafts of the cant-hooks .
then in swahili , ' to-morrow , sable ?
one time i speak good arabic .
” “he’s hard to describe .
they were all out there on the pier and it wasn’t at all like an earthquake or that sort of
were several game trails that went into them .
” “over there .
the mountains .
“he hasn’t got it , ” johnson said .
and if i missed , i was the clown of the piece and he would look at me and shake
then he cut one half into slices and made onion sandwiches .
jack didn’t laugh .
buried .
his pistol made nick nervous .
that beautiful horse-cavalryman .
six months ?
did the scouts get anything ?
are you my superior officer ?
i don’t care about seeing them again .
" that ' s right , " jack said .
great interest in it ; everything was so easy to say .
then he came right behind the bait and his spear came out too , sort of wagging clean out of
' i know it , ' i said .
you ' re my last and true and only love .
and i did keep them from catching you .
locked tight together and turning his body like tightening a screw brought his skis sharply around to the right in
" what will it be ?
all for forgiveness .
' ' i believe we share the same emotions , ' the colonel said .
” “my father feels bad sometimes too in the morning .
' bad , ' m ' cola agreed .
' is there water ?
twice he , too , had a reaction against the war and against talking about it .
nor did they wish to fight him .
” “but we’ve missed our early start and the early morning on the road .
then all of a sudden i started to cry .
” “what do you want me to do .
when you were really ripe for a girl you always got one .
' you good , brave , lovely girl .
" you look very well , sir , " james said .
” “good , ” said al .
or must a vehicle have wheels or be tracked ?
glass he went into a white , deadly , dutch rage and it was quite a time before we were
you have said good-bye to your girl and she has said good-bye to you .
“and let’s not talk morbid even if i write morbid .
' while m ' cola was skinning the head out and charo was butchering out the meat , a long
" i don ' t mean fun that way .
gills clear .
” i had been there when he came in .
it was like the sound the wings of ducks make as they go over before it is light , but
“thanks very much for the quarter , ” the waitress said .
” “she gives me a dollar a pound , ” nick adams said .
" let me take that stick .
_ _num_ d soldier_--all right , george , we ' ll have a round of the red .
” “how much money has he got ?
tell him i ' ll put him in the cinema .
gosh , i never saw such a horse .
, and trout would rise in the pool when there was a hatch of fly .
the last i heard of him the swiss had him in jail near sion .
come on and lead at me .
especially now they’ve got so much anti-tank .
i ' ve never given it its proper importance .
sing was doing .
' little while .
out to the open sea to raft up .
of all the romance .
once again we heard him cough ahead of us and once , a little farther on , we heard a
neck .
” “he said he’d been after you for four years .
i thought you just wanted me to get up for fun .
” “get the head waiter .
“that doesn’t do us any good .
but i knew .
i couldn ' t get it going .
he had borrowed carfare to go to chicago , when the wire came that his first big well had come
s , and all the little cafés , damoy ' s , crossed the street to the rotonde , past
there was no undergrowth , only the smooth grass , very green and fresh , and the big gray trees
braddocks followed me .
" you know how the ladies are .
" " that was a wonder .
the prisoner sat there .
very easily at little things that were of no importance .
probably meant the end of cuckoldry too .
“you don’t have to fear bullets , ” i said , “but you should avoid them when you are in
helenadid not wake so he left it on and let it blur in with his thinking and his driving .
' should she go with me ?
not a bad-looking girl .
the count was in fine form during the meal .
nick rubbed his eye .
' ' we ' ll see , ' the colonel said .
“that’s it .
he sat there , sweating under his arms , his mouth dry , his stomach hollow feeling , wanting to
until he became bored and then walking down through the town to spend the hottest hours of the day in
a hand up , my mouth too dry to talk , a heat shimmer over the ground now when you
he cleared out last night and his kid sister’s gone with him .
he now looked as though he should have not only an old school tie but one of those little caps
it isn ' t crazy or morbid .
he was like a god , he was .
what can i tell you that won ' t bore you ?
that in straight , steady trailing , now in the heat , with the sun really bad , truly bad
grayheaded and hawk-faced , staring at them and smiling .
' ' well , we made him feel good anyway .
mike and brett fixed it up with us about coming down here .
“je ne crois pas que schmidt est catholique .
i dictionaried .
the treatment is for tomorrow .
you couldn ' t believe how lousy .
” krebs looked at her .
although , as we walked to the cova through the tough part of town , walking in the dark ,
" " would you like to go to south america , jake ?
” “not unless you want to very much .
i am all confidence .
we were beaten and we have to wait a while now .
there was nothing to it , gentlemen .
jack sat there looking irish and tough .
” “they’re all right .
i watched it turn off to take the road to spain .
then we heard the cough again , a little ahead and to the right .
macomber had stood solid and shot for the nose , shooting a touch high each time and hitting the heavy
" she paused .
' if i get through this safari without socking you it ' s going to be a bloody marvel .
that was a shot .
“you know i have , ” he said .
being pulled .
” “not too .
” “what are we going to do ?
then he heard the little man say , “i got an awful headache , bugs .
the earth felt good against his back .
” the big one asked .
portrait .
the stream to try and dig some worms for bait .
sad and disillusioned people .
" " was he greater than you ?
' but i was bitter and i was bitter all night long .
" " that ' ll depend , " max said .
he shot very quickly and beautifully .
" " i said all i had to say the other night , mike .
there they told us the bus service did not start until the _num_ st of july .
don ' t you remember ?
in a few minutes the steer picked the new bull up , quieted him down , and made him one
wakened by the sun that , rising above the slope of open land behind the house , shone full on
it was at the edge of a belt where all the trees had been girdled to kill the tsetse flies
“equally , ” he said .
in the dark he kissed her , brushing his lips against hers , feeling them both fill without opening ,
wore his oldest clothes in town .
he used both of his hands in a swinging motion and tried to do the pulling as much as he
if he were in a crowd nothing he said stood out .
“camels , ” she said .
“i’m coming out , ” she said .
" " i can ' t talk the language well enough .
the coaming .
” she slept curled up in the deep seat and roger drove , watching the wide road ahead for stock
leaving at that hour , we will have time to see the ducks in the evening .
” “no , the russian first , me after .
" " what a rotten business .
looked a smooth grass-filled basin was very broken , tricky country with grass that was from waist-high to well above
" " why , the dancings .
" all the happiness went from madame fontan ' s face .
at the same time he heard the sound of a bat against a baseball and shrill shouting in spanish from
” “shut up , ” nick said .
“i’m so glad , ” his father said .
and we watched them go back a couple of hundred yards to the edge of the forest .
“they don’t make them any more .
" i guess he don ' t feel well .
romero had the old thing , the holding of his purity of line through the maximum of exposure , while
we’d jammed an absolutely perfect barricade across the bridge .
his face drove into the sand .
a fourth planed down , to run quick-legged and then waddle slowly toward the others .
“i’m going to marry a mermaid .
his own four paws .
” down the gap , walking beside two stretcher-bearers and seeming to pay no attention at all to where he
there were three girls in all , and they all took turns going and standing in the doorway .
but i ' ll come back .
“come on .
“now what are the circumstances that would—that have made you consider …” “i’m broke .
" i don ' t want to lose the way to fornaci .
" the stretcher-bearers came in .
black jacket going third and they all sailing over the jump like birds .
' the colonel asked her .
i’m sorry .
” i was watching the bridge and the african looking country of the ebro delta and wondering how long now
" you poor schatz , " i said .
“get him out of there , ” manuel shouted to the gypsy .
“the gentlemen are just come down from the wiesbadenerhütte , ” the innkeeper said .
” “at drinking .
“it is now half-past eleven o’clock and these are still guzzling .
bridge and went on until the timber thinned and we came out into a grassy savannah that stretched ahead to
“that’s what makes the trouble .
he was headed toward the salt-lick at about nine o ' clock when the wind began to be tricky ,
could we have another beer ?
' ' please don ' t , ' she said .
“all right , ” wilson said .
the sergeant held his eyes open and looked at the prisoner .
jack poured in some water .
mike went on talking .
" you like music ?
manuel pulled the blade out by the red hilt and the scabbard fell limp .
listen , mr .
all the time we heard the cattle in the woods .
the bull is black and they ' re brown .
“who’s there ?
i felt around and cut the big artery and the blood came hot against my fingers .
they were all drinking wine and mopping up the oil and vinegar with pieces of bread .
shoot the pigeons down .
inside the café he had thought that talking about it would blunt it ; but it had not blunted it
i never get into bed before three o’clock .
with whom , he thought and where , and god help me not to be bad .
and respected it .
curls ; tight and subjected by metallic instruments .
“there’s no necessity to use a word like that .
i’m awfully sorry .
solid as a rock .
the daughter of the house came downstairs as we went in .
i would say his progress could not be more satisfactory .
jack ' s face was the worst thing i ever saw , --the look on it !
he kneeled down in the corner in front of the locker and brought out a square-faced bottle .
no salt .
they landed at cherbourg and came to paris .
he piled in the bags and we started off up the street and out of the town .
tom saw me looking at her and he said , " come on .
and we were going way up close along a hillside , with a valley below and hills stretched off back
when he saw me studying his face he smiled pleasantly and scratched his chest .
[he makes a lifting gesture with his two palms together .
he read all the spanish news carefully in the three papers and then read the other cable news and then
sometimes he wrote in his room .
he ' s a hooker and he carries his hands pretty low .
" you got the most class of anybody i ever seen .
but i wish to christ he hadn’t ever got it .
this was simple .
she had a pretty face and a nice smooth skin and a lovely voice and she was nice all right
i was in school in paris , then .
the magnesium flared and the fireworks exploded and chased about in the crowd .
' not always .
, that he had been badly wounded thirty years before .
then it came in sight .
there were some people that had known mike at cannes .
“bring one of the big beech chunks , ” bill said .
” “perhaps .
but she doesn ' t know it yet .
there are too many things happen to them .
now he knew that boy had never been any good .
once it looked as though he were waking .
he touched the bump over his eye with his fingers .
” “got any more ?
he had no feeling of his left hand but he braked all he could with his right and the line
had seen the chauffeur take up the long , winding ramp to lock away .
every time you shoot now can be the last shoot and no stupid son of a bitch should be allowed
" " he ' s going to saint jean de luz .
vous n’avez rien mangé .
" " i haven ' t got it .
it’s bad luck in the end .
was an observer .
” “what shall we drink ?
“you’re a hot sketch .
nick felt like laughing .
i got up and went to the balcony and looked out at the dancing in the square .
everything was possible once .
“dead .
' ' he ' ll look damned handsome when you get him home .
" he was from a very good family in vevey .
” “what was he doing up here if he comes from soissons ?
harry greb is dead you know .
" " says he can ' t wait to see me .
then as he was going away i laid that one on his stern .
' we all love venice .
his fingers , and then with the insides of his fingers , and then with the palm of his hand
" " that peasant , " the innkeeper said , " to-day he brought his wife in to be buried
and all of this as rapidly as possible .
, ” the doctor said .
' i am , ' said andrea , returning the lie .
" " they ' ll kill him .
" " how you feel ?
then i got up and went in the kitchen and got a drink of water about half past four and
no not the same .
” “well , ciao then .
' ' i guess the lesson is , ' the colonel said , ' don ' t ever build yourself
the bill always came .
" " vienna , " said bill , " is a strange city .
i don’t want him to because i’ll never ever tell him or anybody anything again , never anything again .
" the nigger and my bright boy are amused by themselves .
” “well , i don’t feel good never to have even visited the tomb of my grandfather .
they ' re dead , he said .
good-bye , my dear , lovely , beautiful .
it was crowded and close .
the innkeeper brought in the fourth bottle .
you ought to know .
' ' what happened ?
" " i want to go home and into bed .
the stern , he drove the boat ahead to break the ice .
” “i’m glad it’s her , ” said guy .
' twice as big as b ' wana kabor .
” “stop it , ” i said to guy .
leaning back , inciting the bull with the banderillos , fuentes jumped , both feet off the ground .
“daughter , are you drinking more than you usually do ?
i whispered to p .
then the index was open all night long and got the early morning trade and from daylight until ten o’clock
it hit manuel on the foot .
he did not think it was true .
“what’s holding it up ?
forward onto his nose .
“we must get back inside .
' ' will we see them when we make the long trip and stop at all the filling stations or
remedies .
i never knew how easy it was .
she was a thin juke-joint looking blonde .
' i ' ll go to cipriani ' s and get some money .
" by this time we were at the restaurant .
of the water and , flopping in the air , sailed over nick’s shoulder and onto the bank behind him
sergeant !
they were standing at the door .
” “what are we going to do tomorrow ?
shutters .
and as i stroked him the masai patted my arm .
you can’t eat it .
“gentlemen , i give you fishing .
he felt lighter , as he had felt before bill started to talk about it .
' ' i ' m sorry , jackson , ' the colonel said .
" i tell you straight they shot him in the back .
” “you do not understand .
i poured a little in my glass , then a glass for brett , then filled my glass .
you get plenty trouble .
' ' what ' s the matter , portrait ?
" " _au show .
' yes , ' he said .
which is murano .
couldn ' t we all be buried out at the ranch ?
” “no dudes , blindy , and it’s a wednesday .
tell him !
one naked one and one with breeches in each lot .
" " you interfere with this one , " he looked at the cook .
his eyes were sort of too steady .
came back again and walked the two miles to the road .
the american lady ' s bed was the one next to the window .
" want to buy anything ?
they were eating dinner in the down-stairs dining-room .
" how ' s sister cecilia ?
“he’s a very good head , ” wilson said .
” “they never mentioned him , ” suzy said .
” he pulled the sheet up over his face again .
' that ' s rotten , ' i said and i tried to feel bad about it but i was
let me be angry for you .
" i ' m not drunk .
" " he was a very distinguished soldier , " brett said .
can ' t do it .
' look , daughter , ' the colonel said .
harry , why do you have to turn into a devil now ?
' a hell of a shot .
but she was perfectly clean .
" " sorry .
” asked the doctor’s wife from the room where she was lying with the blinds drawn .
' ' no , i never drink .
he filled the pitcher with the dipper dipping cold spring water from the pail .
eyes , moss growing on the base of his horn that grew out forward from his nose .
the stars were bright now and he saw the dolphin clearly and he pushed the blade of his knife into
it makes me hungry both ways .
it wasn’t the way he talked , ” peroxide said happily .
” guy said .
he’s all lead .
that very afternoon he came to me with a punk , some fellow from his own town who was broke
if they don ' t travel too fast i will get into them , the old man thought , and
strung out on the plain , and away off on the shoulder of the first dark mountain was the gray
there was a tall unbroken mirror in one of the rooms of that house giving off the stairs as you
“one hundred and forty-three pounds , ” the fat man who was weighing said .
linked them all up .
” nick went into his room , undressed , and got into bed .
” red looked down at him .
" " i couldn ' t stand it about brett .
i told him it was only a trap as always .
him a lot around the dock and around the café .
” “all that is real to me are the dead , ” she said .
“the firestones are indian .
but i wouldn’t want it all this solemn .
he could see the car on the road beside the warehouse .
he ' s an ace .
it had been a long night and he was happy to speak to someone .
in their tight overcoats and derby hats they looked like a vaudeville team .
the two men went on .
there was a heavy wildness of movement in the narrow , deep current , and the trout was torn out
i should have gone on home .
can you track ?
i started .
don’t .
“good-by , ” i said .
of course in that kind of thing it always seems closer .
full of brains too many times .
down the side streets that led to the square we saw the square solid with people , those in the
you take what you want .
” “i’ll holler , ” nick said .
neither can anybody else in this army .
all for literature .
” “oh no , ” jack says .
' ' absolutely , and they asked me to remember them to you if i saw you .
' ' plenty , ' the colonel said .
' ' other salt , ' pointing in the direction of the big lick in the woods , which i
i never asked , i guess .
” “what creek ?
nickie , do you believe in god ?
' ' would you have been a general if you had not lied ?
these were four men and four bicycles .
there was a long palaver and the head one of the two khaki-panted guides showed his credentials , a to
patches and they had what pistols were serviceable and some that weren’t and put it all in the canvas sack
was over-confident anyway .
board .
the car went out of the square , along through the side streets , out under the trees and down
” “how do you feel ?
i watched him walk back to the café holding his paper .
in five years , i thought , it will seem just as silly as all the other fine philosophies i
" " where did he go afterward ?
i liked the roman very much and had a high regard for him .
all you have to do is not give him the message .
george ducked and jabbed three times with the blade .
, not a north and south street , and he and david had stayed in there two days .
' is there anything you would like me to do ?
if they wrote , sometimes it would be good and sometimes not so good and sometimes it would be quite
" jerez , " i said to the waiter .
' what a son of a bitch i am , still ?
in france we ' d go .
in the dark he found a water bottle and took a drink .
' ' big trout ?
the dred scott case was framed by the anti-saloon league .
” “all right , ” the sergeant said .
” “neither have i , ” ad said .
" so i go to austria .
m ' cola came in , grave , solicitous , and very awkward inside a tent and took my clothes
movement , his big gun ready , the second gun-bearer looking ahead and listening , macomber close to wilson ,
i went outside to the car .
i don’t know how else you’d do it .
what a good-bye that was .
' thank you .
” “no , sir , ” i told him .
” “do you feel any better ?
' ' hunting kudu ?
" guy was looking up the road .
does , and said , ' put it there , pal .
the fields were brown and the vines coarse and thick .
" " here , " i said .
” “not if we’re going to canada .
” “les polacks sont catholiques , ” fontan said .
“ils veulent shooter les uns les autres .
" " it ' s me .
and where he spent his summers as a boy and youth .
" you ' re crazy , jake , " he said .
he only wanted to be with her , and the others meant nothing to him at all .
current .
comes--when the time comes , i mean--i ' ll climb right up with him .
" " you speak french ?
some were on the road and the second outfit gave them a small carefully hoarded burst .
, which was a pleasant , clean , well-kept place and as good as another to be dead in ,
' ' that ' s wonderful .
the winter had come very cold that year and all the mountains were white beyond the plain .
a little ashamed , and regretted that i was such a rotten catholic , but realized there was nothing i
chapter xv they hanged sam cardinella at six o’clock in the morning in the corridor of the county jail .
' i don ' t think we have to talk against me .
through the park-like country and , in a little while , we waved to the last of them standing straight
set hell ' s own store by them .
” “you keep that up .
what could i buy it with ?
" " down by the lake .
many things that were not to be moved were burned in the backyard and i remember those jars from the
" " was the man your daughter was in love with a swiss ?
tabeshaw suggested .
ho !
' ' you ' re a very good boy , ' the colonel told him .
on the morning of the day of the first bull-fight .
" it was on the third turn that he saw the fish first .
” i heard him roll in his blankets on the straw and then he was very quiet and i listened
” “i doubt it .
then i went up to the cockpit .
" i ' ll be too old before i can ever do it .
i had the two bull-fight papers , and i took their wrappers off .
' ' kandisky , ' he said and bowed .
i grabbed mike .
then he rolled and hung onto that arm and started to cry and i said : “what the hell you
as he smoked , his legs stretched out in front of him , he noticed a grasshopper walk along the
" " how did brett like it ?
but i suppose some able jerk has his boy in groton now , or maybe canterbury , where the big
they changed the referees every four hours after the first eight so that the referees could sleep .
he had been like that since about four o’clock in the morning .
" listen , " i said .
' and that ' s one more reason why i love you .
i suppose , vaguely , i had expected something of the sort .
it flopped over his shoulder and made a musical sound as he walked .
' the girl asked .
they laid him out as comfortably as they could and my father washed off his face .
it was his only remaining reaction to danger except for the perspiring which , he knew , he would always
in the dark with the wind blowing cool through the cabin she said , “now you’re happy and you love
it was late march .
” “i don’t know , ” said al .
his eye ached and he was hungry .
” “it’s better than regal .
and i had no guilty feeling at all .
dollars and a half a week ?
bill was still sleeping , so i dressed , put on my shoes outside in the hall , and went
" " well , " he said , " it don ' t do you any good and i suppose
" asked krum .
it looked a little heavy from the rain , but it was dry in the sun and firm and smooth
he knew it .
" what a morning !
then i’ll get the boat day after tomorrow .
” “too many what ?
” “why don’t you write instead of making up the stories ?
we would find out pretty soon who could figure things out .
he tightened his back muscles .
it would probably be over before i would get there .
no one is ever old in venice , but they grow up very fast .
” it was a bright april day and the wind was blowing wildly so that each mule that came up
" i like an olive in a martini , " i said to the barman .
“let’s get going .
i will keep it for an emergency until it goes bad .
the river cut to the edge of the uprooted tree .
there was a large house with a red tile roof and there was a gray stone mill , and from
" " i don ' t know , " mike said .
you’d be surprised .
he looked at the man on the floor , the blood and the detective holding the revolver .
what time is it ?
possible defeat by oryx .
" he can ' t have gone , " he said .
fontan looked old and tired .
elliot had taken to drinking white wine and lived apart in his own room .
he pushed the shells back in against the spring of the magazine .
" " why continue ?
" is he in ?
" " jesus christ , " i said , " what kind of blood have you anyway ?
" vous savez , il est crazy pour le vin .
he cast her off .
“the only name i can remember for him is splayzey .
he did not want to have to do any courting .
“let’s get it .
“is it the gentleman’s birthday ?
macomber opened the breech of his rifle and saw he had metal-cased bullets , shut the bolt and put the
it ' s too early in the morning and your duty ' s not completed yet .
' ' please keep telling me and be as little rough as you can .
do it tonight .
you got to have a lot of political development to be a good tank man now .
i ran onto them .
” he asked al .
frazer used to like to think of the morning revellers arriving at the studio and picture how they would look
" " his niece .
“with a party .
“come on , ” i said .
over the old man ' s shoulders .
and he couldn’t keep down his kilos without all that running .
” “i guess he’s all right .
the waiter recommended a basque liqueur called izzarra .
” “it was not like this in the old days , ” one of the copains said .
there is a porter with the two bags .
" " well , you only got another week .
” they all shook hands and they were gone .
not all .
” he looked at her face between him and the fire .
the colonel was watching the movement the dog made in the high grass and sedge .
” zurito looked at his hands .
" " i ' d a damn sight rather be in town with the wife .
you do it , as ordered , with a big butcher bill and you ' re a hero .
there was yellow weed on the line but the old man knew that only made an added drag and he
there was a place in lyons and another near the parc monceau that always were merged in his dreams .
they rushed us into a wine-shop .
, found the bullet hole and put his finger in .
“take this , ” the middle-aged waiter said , and poured out a glass of the valdepeñas and handed it
disliked intensely being compared to a little terrier .
" i know a girl in strasbourg who can show us the town , " i said .
dr .
" let ' s all drink to-- " he began .
“don’t be sore , ” john says .
also belmonte imposed conditions and insisted that his bulls should not be too large , nor too dangerously armed with
don ' t you find it like that ?
" " i ' m fine .
this is the best organized and best run duck shoot i have ever shot at and i have had as
you tell him , " he said to mr .
" i ' ll dance again for you some time .
pedro romero was in the café .
many of these were detached from a heavy , barbed-wire fence which had surrounded the position of the factory and
and some abandoned looking corrals or thorn-bush-fenced enclosures with mud and stick buildings and to the right there were cone-shaped
fresh water was better .
only the hyenas were funnier .
" " muy buenos .
we passed a crossroads and crossed a bridge over a stream .
come on , robert .
' i ' ve started already .
" " come in .
then , stooped , he went on trailing fast by the blood spoor .
drain he got him down on to his shoulders again and we went on into camp , the boys ,
" two ways , " mike said .
he looked at nothing .
she certainly would not call early and the shops did not open until nine or a little later .
he was a very big mako shark built to swim as fast as the fastest fish in the sea and
and meanwhile , in the far-off dripping jungles of yucatan , sounded the chopping of the axes of the gum-choppers
we followed the tracks through thick brush and then out into an open patch .
“but some of them are quite nice .
i had been sleeping heavily and i woke feeling i was too late .
” “the military revolt ?
” his wife asked him .
worried .
but i ' m not lucky .
“you’re shit , ” claude said .
of the canyon , well down the stream .
” “blackie , you have one on the house , ” frank said .
you know i feel rather damned good , jake .
infantry covering fire when they attacked .
but first i have to get out of this trouble and learn how to make some money .
' ' we tell him nothing , ' the girl said .
es muy flamenco .
" they go to church , then they fight with knives all the way home and kill each other all
it ' s just my preliminary theory .
patches of gulf-weed .
going back and forth between mirafiore and san siro and riding just about every day in the week with a
but there isn’t any use being scared .
” “where’s he going ?
débine-toi .
i picked it up when i took a course at the _collège des maréchaux_ .
' ' i don ' t think so , ' the colonel said .
nick did not go close to it as he knew it flowed under the banks and he did not want
he pulled on his shirt and was glad to have it on .
you can ' t go against lots .
you better get some shut-eye .
” “not with it like this .
_num_ rifle to carry but juma shook his head .
he took a fifty peseta note out of his pocket-book and laid it , spread out flat , on the
the two who were making the film had already eaten and gone back to work on the bad camera .
he had swallowed too big a gulp .
nick tossed the offal ashore for the minks to find .
" frances asked him .
" " that it passes quickly .
everything is on such a clear financial basis in france .
” john pointed his fingers on the table and brought his hands up , at the same time bringing up
' the girl was crying , finally , although she had made the decision never to cry .
' ' you don ' t have to buy me .
' ' i knew you had hit him , and i knew he wasn ' t the same bull .
she wouldn ' t care for it either .
” the old man sitting in the shadow rapped on his saucer with his glass .
the colonel paid for the wrapped-up package and proceeded on through the market inhaling the smell of roasted coffee and
” “how should i know .
i pushed them clear and the boy with him started sculling off .
he washed his hands at the stream .
" all right , " said nick .
” “how far are we behind him ?
from where nick stood he could see deep channels , like ruts , cut in the shallow bed of the
might have been much greater .
a road went up to the hills along the edge of the timber and along that road he picked blackberries
“much better than that of big timber .
enrique drew back the double bolt on the door and opened it with his left hand , the colt still
the town and be cheerful and leave you here to be wrapped .
_ the girl , whose first name was renata , had the doors of the tall armoire open .
" " mandarlo al carajo , " said cayetano , who was very tired .
now he got his head up from the wood and out of the slice of fish that his cheek had
for belmonte .
it comes , sometimes , atrociously .
you could tell a thousand and they would not prevent war .
of course once you were inside the protecting trees , and in the blind , you were wonderfully placed ,
there was a bandage around his head under the cap .
to jump on the ice-coated mounds of brush several times before they would flush .
“but this time they’re right .
" it ' s his fight .
his hair was down in his eyes , there was blood on his face , his necktie was pulled to
they sat looking into the fire and thinking of this profound truth .
" my dear , i would do it if i would enjoy it .
” the girl wore a one-piece dress .
he had destroyed his talent himself .
" don ' t you ever get the feeling that all your life is going by and you ' re
frazer saw them but he did not feel like talking , and when they went he knew they would not
makes deep so close in to shore and where it makes a son of eddy where there is always lots
we could see seven .
“you were very wise , wemedge , ” bill said .
” “perhaps that was because i wore braces , ” i said .
it was a kongoni , and had not shot .
" " where did they find you ?
' ' when you get it you won ' t have any heart .
a little behind the others that were strung out in that steady plunging gait ; and then , the car
” “where’s that ?
i had believed we might see him from the ant-hill and after we came down we went on for about
what .
but you ought to always write it to try to get it stated .
blood came out from under the fingernails of both his and the negro ' s hands and they looked each
it was easy to find because of the bend of the river , and where the heavy machine gun post
nick reached the whisky bottle from the shelf above the fireplace .
a little farther on i went through the covering on some sort of game pit and went flat on my
“it all evens up , ” nick said .
i saw that wrench go into the sand .
he was a nice guy .
our mother’s gone to bed with a sick headache .
“those must boil , ” he said , and began to scrub his hands in the basin of hot water
mike acted as though nothing had happened .
shoot where he saw any movement .
“do you think having a rummy on board makes any difference ?
' yes , how is my dear mother ?
he liked to look at them all , though .
as the fragmentation in the burst of a high explosive shell .
the first meal in spain was always a shock with the hors d ' oeuvres , an egg course ,
” the second one always tastes better than the first because certain taste buds are numbed against the bitterness of
' ' i learned that phrase from you and now you have re-learned it back from me .
john moved in .
” “well let’s not worry about it now .
“that’s true .
" " yes , every once in a while .
' ' i was a bloody , stubborn fool , ' i said .
i’ll eat with you and then we’ll put the cot in .
line to see if it was possible to gain any on his fish .
straighten the wrinkled sheet in a bed , while kamau brought tins from the provisions to see what i would
never saw anybody work better on that ranch than that boy .
had been devised for some very valuable instrument .
some of the younger fishermen , those who used buoys as floats for their lines and had motorboats , bought
simonsays .
to sleep .
“they eat the dinner , ” his friend said .
" " what a question !
' here ' s some beer for you .
i remember the way he’d pull on a rubber shirt over a couple of jerseys and a big sweat shirt
the muzzle of the gun rose and lowered , then swept to left , to right , and back to
he perspired heavily while doing this and it made his hair very curly and his face red .
the consulate was closed .
service as he had moved into and out of the arms of different women .
or they took it away from him .
” “good , ” roger said .
they walked up from the beach through a meadow that was soaking wet with dew , following the young indian
you have to take it .
on the trip , at that grant and at a bustard once on the plain , still he beat me
instead of curling up hard and slipping away she would open out smoothly , relaxing , untightening , easy to
“sure , ” the man said .
” “we won’t .
it had killed his brother , the promising one , about nine years ago .
" they don ' t divorce much here .
' ' which do you wish ?
that was where the liaison colonel came to visit me .
it has a scar over it now .
" " but you like the beer ?
" want a drink ?
and hunt any likely-looking clearings .
and then , while they lifted the cot , suddenly it was all right and the weight went from his
i had to go up and bring robert cohn down .
' it ' s airtight .
' ' we go , ' i said .
“if you’re not a medical doctor i wouldn’t go over there .
i represent european organization .
it ' s all right .
" " it won ' t do any good .
" " it is a bit strong just at the start , " brett said .
” “do you want to see him ?
the old man .
” “i’ll come back if you want me .
" now they have beaten me , he thought .
" " he sobered up afterward .
“maybe we better go back to the other car , ” my father said to me .
“let’s talk about something else .
" if that ' s the way you feel about it .
it was much lighter on the logging road as the timber was cut away on both sides .
you could tell by the degree of intensity in the shout how bad a thing it was that was happening
” “i haven’t tried it .
a joke on all the people who had them .
they rebuilt his face , but he came from a very old family and they could never get the nose
" tell him he is mine , " she said .
' let ' s all have a gimlet , ' i said .
tank reserve .
let’s talk about it or anything else and i’ll be friendly .
" " fix yourself on this , " said the smallest one .
” “what became of your girl ?
" quiet down , jack , " john said to him .
he ' s a baron .
each bait hung head down with the shank of the hook inside the bait fish , tied and sewed solid
“of course .
as any other thing that wrecked him .
they went up-stairs and i stopped to speak with montoya .
“i want to work , ” manuel said .
" what do you think ' s going to happen ?
the ears and crooning the same , sighing , ' ooo-ooo !
you beat-up , miserable .
he ' s going to give me two hundred pounds and then i ' m going to visit friends .
three or four miles of swamp .
" " i got to kill him .
yesterday he’s scared sick and today he’s a ruddy fire eater .
' but we ' ve been hunting them hard now for ten days .
” eddy paid out rope and when finally she didn’t drag he made her fast .
" and keep awake and steer .
go on franz .
“i want to have a talk with you .
well , my old man got his license all right .
the cord a little .
bill waved his hand and started down the stream .
' just then the driver came in the door .
cohn was standing in the door of the room .
the larger ones that fly making a noise somewhat similar to that produced by a rattlesnake rattling his rattlers ,
unless i wired him otherwise , and would meet him at bayonne , where we could get a bus over
' this is what i enjoy .
these were relics of his wife .
sing , ” i said .
' ' you can ' t tell .
" " and do you know george shiras two ?
“consider the razor , ” george said .
a portion of this was true .
" he must be a boxer .
she knew the indians who had brought in the baskets and she knew the two indian boys who were looking
oh , i wish to christ he wouldn ' t have got it .
' she is forgotten , ' the colonel said .
" " i don ' t know , " said al .
many ballrooms mentioned in too many big hotels for him to see los angeles .
mike was sitting at a table with several men in their shirt-sleeves , eating from a bowl of tuna fish
the roman was standing making an oration with gestures in the direction where the light was beginning to show and
' ' i don ' t trust those side roads in this low country .
huh !
' ' wouldn ' t you tell me about them ?
“il y a des gens très gentils , très sensibles , qui viennent aussi , ” he said .
pick them out yourself .
' ' no , ' the barone alvarito said .
i tried the knob and it opened .
' don ' t you think pop ' s handsome ?
i never knew anyone else that could either .
maybe colder .
he was lying on the side where the bullet had gone in and there was not a mark on him
” the cook asked .
“i’ll be back for the mem .
so the man sent him away with five other bulls to be killed in the ring , and at least
the odor , now , was really terrific .
hampers .
" don ' t think , old man , " he said aloud .
we don’t have to talk about london do we ?
” “go on up .
" " i ' d rather stay awake .
we must never let her see one from close regardless of the danger .
' just then the grand master came into the room .
wonderful after the barbecue .
" ain ' t it a life ?
" " all right , signor tenente .
“now she can marry somebody of her own sort and settle down and be happy .
he charged and juma knocked him down and finished him in the ear .
” “you mean we would talk ?
then we drew pictures in the dust of ashes from the fire and what he meant were sable all right
he’ll pick him .
i was the last one to leave the town of san carlos .
“it would be swell , ” nick said .
they came at an angle like this—” “you seem awfully sure about it , ” he said .
this country no longer exists .
and the other part of him thought : you must be slipping you bastard if the absinthe can bring the
they were above the tanned line when he washed up in the washbasin outside the house .
it’s notre dame .
” “just sitting around on the screen porch .
the dogs have pointed , and the rhino was not in sight .
" come back in , edna , " he said .
now here is the situation--i married a man in u .
” “i’m glad if i really do .
" " when does the fiesta start ?
” “i do write .
liking that made her feel funny .
at noon i went uptown and ate at a chink place where you get a good meal for forty cents
' _ciao_ , andrea , ' she said .
” “weren’t you intelligent ?
i ' m going to visit friends .
the picador , his hat down over his eyes , the shaft of his pic angling sharply toward the bull
the drums kept on pounding and the pipes were going .
he heard some one coming very heavily up the stairs .
i went down once more with the wrench and it didn ' t do any good .
" get out of here !
” “and it’s really all right ?
but she did not and he drove through the old town and turned off to the left on u .
late in the afternoon , when they had made camp , he had put some prunes in a tin pail
” “that’s a long time to fish .
they were shined and i put them on and unbuttoned the curtain and went out in the aisle .
willingness to oblige and his lack of respect for federal statutes , made him his trouble .
i get them all the time at the mess .
" " well , you marry the one with the most money .
" i just heard it somewhere .
“i’ll get some more water , ” nick said .
" " we ' ve put in a bathroom .
" this is a good place , " he said .
don’t you love your mother , dear boy ?
” “at one time i was under the age limit , ” nick said .
he handed me the boy’s feldbuch .
“good night , ” they told him .
he lifted the rod straight up in the air .
" the bravest of these were the belgians , " ' he quoted .
" " how did your friends like them ?
“christ , ” he said , “i might as well go .
their immortality , to have their shucked carcasses float out easily on an ebb tide on the grand canal .
the only thing is that it is tanned , and that takes some of the curse off of it .
most predatory and the most attractive and their men have softened or gone to pieces nervously as they have hardened
* * * * * about the time when it became necessary to turn off the radio sister cecilia came
he poured the milk and coffee .
we kissed again .
” “what is it ?
as i threw the shell , slammed the bolt forward and shot again , behind him as he went out
out into the wire , so when they brought him in , alive , they had to cut him loose
there ' s nothing here for you to do .
outside in the street we looked for a taxi .
looking carefully out across the prairie and all along its far side .
once covered with shadow .
” “can’t i stay with you ?
nobody floating .
“come on or i’ll blow your can off .
' and i know damn well where it is .
' ' she ' s just jealous and malicious .
to the grey , dusty opening in the trees where the salt lick was worn , grooved , and trampled
" george looked at the clock on the wall behind the counter .
i know where i can always get some , though .
no , i’ll be in the chapel .
then it got larger and larger and larger and then smaller and smaller .
he will start circling soon and then i must work on him .
he cautiously worked it down under the line that was across his shoulders now .
“don’t do it , paco .
“that’s happy steinfelt and lew morgan .
i’m cheered up .
much closer .
” “not if you act rough .
many times .
" " you better not have anything to do with it at all , " sam , the cook ,
i better get the sack and put it over my shoulders .
first it was dark as a shoal in the blue water that was more than a mile deep .
" he asked .
” “maybe it will get better .
' god , he went over like a rabbit .
it was cool all day and lovely and cool at night .
cold .
” “of course it will .
” “it doesn’t make any difference , ” she said .
the waiter seemed a little offended about the flowers of the pyrenees , so i overtipped him .
' i have perfect confidence in droopy .
you ' ve often been very cheerful .
and out washing the sleep out of my eyes before i was really awake .
italy to a man when he handed you a time-table or explained about a direction .
“do you think it’s true ?
' they were on the old road that he knew so well and the colonel thought , well , i
” “it’s going to be wonderful , ” she said .
' ' what do you have for politics ?
to the barrera below us .
it must have been left from the days before the motor-buses .
tomorrow is the eighty-fifth day .
" is there an englishwoman here ?
some one waved at me from a table , i did not see who it was and went on .
that afternoon we had left the car up the road and approached the salt-lick very carefully .
hills way off .
he heard his father moving around in the living room .
they built that church you see there with the square tower .
but the grand plan of what we called shaef , supreme , get that word , headquarters of the allied
he was really too hurried to eat breakfast , but he knew he must .
' you may give it to me .
now that it is daylight let him jump so that he ' ll fill the sacks along his backbone with
" " on wine ?
his father’s underwear that had gotten too small for his father it made him feel sick and he took it
the wrench was gone and i ' d lost the grapple so i sculled back to the boat .
i set my watch again .
he had to get so close that the bull saw his body , and would start for it , and
he went out very quietly to go to bring some coffee and all the way down the road he was
“what do you mean , kike , you big irish bum ?
” the maid laughed .
he could not see the green of the shore now but only the tops of the blue hills that showed
manuel walked toward the bull .
" " tell her they have a touchdown already .
" up in his room , lying down .
" somebody said .
leg with his head shuddering and the trap was set again .
” they ate the strudel and drank the rest of the wine .
nick drank and wiped his mouth on his napkin .
happily .
week-end .
much fun shooting here as i ever had in my life .
he was holding the spoon and sort of poking at the grapefruit with it .
“not strange , really , ” wilson said .
but they were so high they could see the barrel with him in it and the frozen-in decoys with the
you ' ll need to start about three-thirty .
doesn ' t know who shot him and that he is very weak and wishes you would question him later
" she would not look up .
" of course not .
” there was no answer and she could not hear him breathing .
“come on , you polak son-of-a-bitch , ” jack says to walcott .
he had drunk his second brandy .
” “and you had to leave them ?
" mike paused .
jack has the left hand in his face .
it is much too late for that and there are people who are paid to do it .
' there are some fair english translations .
” “he has the face of a russian , ” pointing at the other one of us who was working
" there will be bad weather in three or four days , " he said .
must have been something though when they struck in that rain and wind and he told them to open her
the head and they were going to butcher and cache the meat in trees so the hyenas would not get
“your friends morgan and steinfelt , ” jack said .
how much did you suffer ?
the president looked down from the box and waved his handkerchief .
he simply woke , looked out the open door at the moon and unrolled his trousers and put them on
i woke once in the night and heard him sleeping by me ; but in the morning he was up
we could all be buried in france .
this i believed to mean the silver dance or the silver dancer , and , slightly puzzled which it meant
it also faced the public garden and the war monument .
" " yes , signor maggiore .
once walcott interrupts him .
let ' s get our coats and go .
he was fifty and a colonel of infantry in the army of the united states and to pass a physical
" brett asked .
" " yes , but it ' s a long time .
' the girl hard-worded him .
” he did not say anything but looked at the bags against the wall of the station .
" " he went home with frances , " mrs .
' ' take it to the room , please .
get it .
ten indians after one fourth of july , nick , driving home late from town in the big wagon with
gesture that means to go to sleep .
they’ve finished skinning out that head now .
“just to give you that .
" " that ' s the truth , " max said .
george fixed me up fine the other day .
that is where she ought to be and not in any god-damn duck blind with the decoys frozen up on
" he ' s still only a child , you know .
what star must our college students aim at ?
as we came to the edge of the rise we saw the red roofs and white houses of burguete ahead
the boy paco had never known about any of this nor about what all these people would be doing on
" i ' m through with all that running around .
now is the time to think of only one thing .
now is the time to pull yourself together .
ice around with his finger before he drank .
taking away all things before , and all to come , bringing the beginning of bright happiness in darkness ,
then south .
and iron and it felt like fall up at the lake .
" " i thought he was going to be sick .
" " were they happy ?
she was always lovely to look at asleep , sleeping quietly , close curled like an animal , with nothing
he was a young fellow and he held the wine-bottle at full arms ' length and raised it high up
cushions and leather wine bottles , keeping up whistling and yelling .
he wouldn ' t wear himself out .
“how are you feeling ?
” “in red lodge it is of all prices , ” said the big one .
if i had a private room and a radio i would be crying and yelling all night long .
robert ' s sending me .
” “she says , ‘yes , indeedy .
the pull against his back .
" bill looked at the bottle affectionately .
he knew he had shot carefully on the first duck , far to the right of where the boat was
“where do you come from ?
” he was embarrassed .
" oh , absolutely .
” “weren’t you ever discouraged ?
" forget what i said , " i said out loud .
" you have nice friends .
” “i said we could have everything .
we had driven from ventimiglia to pisa and florence , across the romagna to rimini , back through forli ,
" so we rolled poker dice out of a deep leather dice-cup .
settling .
using kerosene , and piled on grass so there were two big smudges at each end of the level place
three weeks .
that was when the car was coming behind them .
it felt good to be warm and in bed .
but not alongside of this robert cohn .
" you big mountain of pus .
" " it wasn ' t bad .
” “no , ” roger said truly .
always been a great lover of stuffed animals .
“i like it fine , ” i said .
' you sure you don ' t want to go ?
” “don’t you like to talk about it ?
' i will take a quarter of a kilo .
but he was dropping money every day at the track .
" " they ' re what you call wise boys , " hogan said .
“don’t tell me any stories .
there has been nothing as good since .
became rather the same and i gave up thinking about them almost altogether .
we had lost that .
" " steve couldn ' t have said that .
in with a sleeve from the sergeant’s shirt .
watch out you don’t get killed , ” he said .
or the opportunity to get it and use it , and you have to live where there is game or
woman .
" i believe , you know , that she ' s falling in love with this bull-fighter chap , "
light .
' i think we should just leave here .
' ' leclerc was a high-born jerk as i think that i ' ve explained .
" i will keep this .
why don’t you drink yours ?
locked the door , and went down-stairs .
it was a folded , old u .
if you shoot one , you have to shoot the other , too .
outside , in the street , it was turning cold and in the moonlight the clouds were passing very big
, and purple brown , bumpy with heat and compie looking back to see how he was riding .
would ---- , discreetly .
" there will be a fifth service at three-thirty .
it was all right to pose as though you had to have a girl .
“me , i can go no further , ” onèsime said .
" don ' t you trust me ?
be ironic .
he looked around at the prisoner .
he could not see the situation in the south except that the revolters would have to come up the valley
' ' oh , ' she said .
then i ' d make all my leading ---- characters ambassadors and the unsuccessful ones could be corps commanders or
“you know this is a long sort of stupid business and we have to learn to pace ourselves .
any remark to make it heard .
, hard hit but going fast , crossing the valley , through the boulders and going up the hillside .
" " listen , amigo , " cayetano began , " i am very weak .
then they put the trout skeletons in the fire and ate the bacon made in a sandwich with the other
' then he said .
wilson had seen it coming for a long time and he dreaded it .
” “but you see if you had tankists that knew their stuff they’d go out ahead and develop the machine-gun
, as is the arrival of people with map cases and field glasses .
' ' i haven ' t the slightest idea .
while for the other , that his father was not sound about , all the equipment you will ever have
” the man who had winked said to my father over the shoulder of the man he was handcuffed to
we agreed that we should get p .
it was another place farther on .
henry’s had been made over from a saloon into a lunch-counter .
maybe we say it because we are afraid .
" when i think of the hell i ' ve put chaps through .
" mike took a drink .
“out of the hospital , ” zurito said .
in the bank of the stream where the cedar trees kept out the sun and there was no grass but
as nick crossed the open field above the orchard the door of the cottage opened and bill came out .
“then you’ll see where we’re going to live .
" yes , sir , " the barman took the orders .
i wished her good night and went up-stairs .
of trouble and not to tell anybody and that you’d take good care of me .
jump out while i settle with this sportsman .
the energy or the courage to break into it .
” “well , ” i told him , “i’ve had action enough for me already today .
" you ' ll be a damn sight sicker when walcott gets through with you .
" hello , you bums , " he said .
kamau brought a thick , long chunk of roast grant gazelle tenderloin from one of the grant pop had shot
taking the jump .
“and what i’m supposed to do doesn’t have to be paid for , either .
for anything that came to the salt had to come out in the open twenty-five yards from any cover .
“he must be about the best guy there is .
but every time he gets in there close , jack has the left hand in his face .
' he protested , sorrowed , and pleaded .
" " tell her to go to hell .
” the warm wind blew the bead curtain against the table .
" you don ' t joke him .
as he looked , the bull gathered himself together and charged , his eyes on the horse’s chest .
“he took too many beatings , for one thing , ” the negro sipped the coffee .
make it fifty , and there was a lot of wire , and you kept stringing it and rolling it
" you were only dead , " bill said .
' ' she is .
in the open kitchen of the amateurs a girl was cooking potato-chips in oil .
have you been long enough at table ?
we would all meet at the montoya in pamplona .
” bill reached down the whisky bottle .
” “they’re mechanics , but they couldn’t learn to soldier .
' the wanderobo patted himself on the chest .
“i didn’t know butterflies ate blood , ” red said .
had missed coming down .
he did not really worry .
he ' d just knocked jack johnson down , the big black bastard .
” “listen you half-witted fisherman .
nothing at all , really .
man had his permit and his colors in a week .
“i command here , and these comrades are our guests .
the other said , ' i wouldn ' t tell a chicken colonel if i had .
the grey-white neck and the green head were swaying up and down as a snake ' s might move .
him as he ran .
watch-chain .
but what else can you do ?
" " i want to go home to bed .
women sweeping out the boxes .
the worst .
i have the two oars and the tiller and the short club .
” “no we haven’t , jim .
' _es un oficio bastante malo_ , ' he repeated , ' loving me .
“will you tell me the rest ?
” and the windows shutting .
it was a long hunt and we came back to camp and decided to send the lorries for porters and
” “were you there ?
' ' listen !
' jackson , ' he said , ' that small villa on the left belonged to gabriele d ' annunzio
in strategy you take him from the sides .
pulled up into it and sat there waiting for my head to stop aching and looking down into the water
" if i had brains i would have splashed water on the bow all day and drying , it would
she was smoking a cigarette and flicking the ashes on the rug .
they spoke of her as a contestant or a place or even an enemy .
the trout are in good shape .
she stood up and went out quickly .
” “hernandez , i think .
he would have a black eye , all right .
” the waiter wiped the edge of the table with a towel and shook his head .
i ' m always in .
it’s very bad weather .
" " he said .
she’s a sea boat all right .
but the hands and the back hurt truly .
manuel drank his brandy .
_num_ st roman soldier—you tried the red ?
" " why didn ' t you shoot him ?
" oh , no .
he pulled the cork , and tipped up the bottle and drank .
that ' s all that counts .
behind the table in the dugout that was battalion headquarters .
, but i got this from a friend of mine that ' s in the business .
i was crouched down behind a marble-topped table while they were shooting in havana .
but at the roar i knew it was bad .
santa claus , clean and rosy-faced and white-haired , and waddling when she walked .
robert cohn asked , pointing with his finger , if there were any trout in the stream , and the
one from down state .
“you try to get me about half the other bottle when they’re asleep .
his hand was amputated .
“thanks , no , ” said the thin one .
“i’d almost like to take her away because he’s so silly .
” “it wasn’t their fault , ” said baldy .
' is there any news from the order ?
” “he never had a chance to do anything to us .
he died , as the spanish phrase has it , full of illusions .
osage oranges , ' he added .
we were passing three cars that had been in a wreck .
" " you might pray , " i laughed .
bring a girl friend if you like .
“can’t you stop that sort of thing ?
' you comb yourself and make a new mouth and all that , and we will have a good dinner
" son of a bitch never move , " billy said .
' that gives you a lot of dope , doesn ' t it ?
but there he was , stretched out , on his belly , and , with the sun just over the
" tight , jake .
or a fish , he thought .
i suppose it is just the loss of the immortality , he thought .
t .
“he’ll sing now in a little while .
madame fontan stood up .
maybe they can make it .
” “i know , ” said nick .
waiting to go out with the tide .
” “i’m not upset , ” he lied .
' ' yes , ' she agreed .
the marsh on the side of the stream where karl was and circled high above us before they went back
black hump of muscle above the wide , wood-knocking , splintered-tipped horns that lowered as he went in to kill
” “i believe it , ” said the biggest one .
' what does he hear ?
” “let’s go back to our house and then start out terribly early in the morning .
drink , and he stayed with us awhile .
a few do , but not many .
' ' a no good job , ' the colonel said .
singing it into his ear .
fish burst out ahead and up the stream a little .
this bar-tender was an anarchist but he did not mind the colonel being a colonel at all .
" that afternoon they had been playing about five minutes when a probationer came into the room and said ,
and you feel like swearing and god-damming worse and worse .
remember him as he was when nick was a boy and he was very grateful to him for two things
“the back is bad .
did he want to come down off the cross , george ?
our deepest convictions—will science upset them ?
they had packed some tinned fruit , a five-pound piece of roast meat , bread , tea , a tea
“there’s nothing funny , ” the cook said .
" " what became of the nigger ?
” “you’re not lonely are you ?
at a hundred .
' where ' s poor old mama ?
" " i am the boss , " said the doctor .
you see i really am .
“i hate to write a dispatch , ” i said .
always make a living at bridge if he were ever forced to .
' ' i don ' t want a drink .
right , up the hill in the timber across the valley , spread out and travelling fast .
that ' s a different thermometer .
" i ' ll make him jump out of the ring .
back and he couldn ' t even wear them .
but i think i ' ll go home .
" it would be bad .
and mr .
" " what do you call yourself ' walcott ' for ?
mouth .
_] _ _num_ st soldier_--i used to see her around the town .
any further concern you may have is about yourself and that is just a luxury .
" " we ' ll see you at lunch ?
the monos were spreading canvas over the two dead horses and sprinkling sawdust around them .
“yes , while you’re in there , ” retana said .
” “i don’t think you ought to work any more , ” hogan says .
because it is all i have left .
he wiped off his face .
world , was more important .
the crowd was in the cafés and the dancers came in , too , and sat , their tight-wound white
" " ah , " said johnson .
banal story so he ate an orange , slowly spitting out the seeds .
” “do you think we are lenguas largas ?
it was roederer brut ' _num_ and he loved it .
what a bloody balls .
came toward the fire wearing her blue dressing-gown and mosquito boots .
" " and bring your friend , " said mrs .
' ' i don ' t think it was .
” “write it down and use it against him , ” the prisoner on the front seat said .
the gun-bearer picked up the rifle .
holding the now living rod across the current , he brought in the line with his left hand .
” “o .
i did not see brett and bill , and some one said they were in the back room .
i ' m afraid to ask about those words every one uses .
" " american too .
" that ' s happy steinfelt and lew morgan .
" did i want to stay myself in person in the hotel montana ?
i need that badly .
he lay on his back and looked up into the pine trees .
enrique shouting .
” “did you get the insurance ?
i won’t kill him , he thought , but anyway it’s the right thing to do .
' ' would you try to sleep , please , to please me ?
a half-pint of maggots working where their mouths have been .
" what did you catch ?
through the window of the café aux amateurs i saw the long zinc bar .
and delicately made and he ' s never done any work with his hands .
” “do you have any idea where he’d head for ?
" come in .
” “yes , aren’t they , ” nick said .
, or the morning we had come in the gates of paris and seen salcède torn apart by the horses
" " everybody .
you remember it , jake .
' garrick implied that the kudu were too far away .
" then they did not say anything for a while .
’ “is pass the other three and i say to company , ‘now is hokay .
have we enough scotch ?
" he looked at me .
the other two moved down a little more , so that he would be quite comfortable .
i held the boat to the dock with a twist of the line around a spile .
he had a key .
pot , and some tinned milk in a whisky box with four bottles of beer .
d’antan , oui .
” “american flyers , ” i said .
i read aloud from howard pyle’s book of pirates ; but i could see he was not following what i
i say , you weren ' t asleep , were you ?
" " can ' t remember .
sometimes those who love her say bad things of her but they are always said as though she were a
none of us spoke and everyone seemed to regard it as a pretty serious business .
” “where are we going ?
chapter xxxiii ' i will skip the detailed part since you are , justifiably , and should be , sleepy
of course , you could fish upstream , but in a stream like the black , or this , you
it was a little long for nocturnal use .
" " through the park .
i followed them with the springfield , then came pop , with p .
" watch the faena , " zurito said .
it doesn’t stop there .
they don ' t know what he means .
' putting on lipstick and moving your lips over each other to get it spread properly and combing your too
" he called .
_num_ caliber colt automatic pistol to nick .
“just speak a little quieter , will you ?
do you know how to use the pump-gun ?
“wipe off your face , ” he said .
" get it on the hill .
but i have never lied to my own advantage .
at this time there were three full matadors living at the luarca as well as two very good picadors ,
" where did you eat ?
nick lay down on the dock beside kate and odgar .
” “no , i insist .
they came in a pack and he could only see the lines in the water that their fins made and
and leaning on a fence , looking over at the herd on the ranch of his friend the bull-breeder .
" " none of you gentlemen is divorced ?
as he had been thinking for months about leaving his wife and had not done it because it would be
blindy was down at the far end of the machines .
it couldn’t have been about sliding .
sound which at the moment i cannot recall .
eddy was a good man on a boat once , before he got to be a rummy , but he
” “what did you say ?
was so bloody marvellous i knew i would wonder , sooner or later , if it was not really a
trees .
who ' s been doing that to you ?
” “not with those guys , ” he said .
the road climbed up into the hills and left the rich grain-fields below .
“i’ll shoot a thousand , ” al said .
spotting the sand .
” “fourteen dollars and sixty-five cents .
and he put his weight hard down on his right pedal with his right boot and we opened on him
' first i can tell you that i love you , period .
" " it isn ' t the same as fishing , though , is it ?
roger read the paper trying to figure out from the various bulletins what had happened , really , and how
i went into the dark of the tent , we had left the lantern with the meat bringers , and
i go to see about indemnification for my property .
there were wrinkles in his tanned neck .
“do the shoes hurt ?
he was a smooth- looking chink all right .
their bodies .
“see you later , ” he said to the two detectives .
nick heard the oarlocks of the other boat quite a way ahead of them in the mist .
he took hold of one foot gently and held it until the boy woke and turned and looked at him
“and this is a public bar .
back of kzar , moving along smooth and yellow in the sun , was a good looking black with a
' do you suppose there are any more in there ?
what he remembered and loved best as an anecdote about that painter was : ' it was easy , '
as it had when he was eighteen years old and had seen it first , understanding nothing of it and
a private joke .
make their run .
in front of him , where the lagoon lay glazed in the first light , was the black boat and
" you ought to quit it , manolo .
he loved to play pool .
” “show him to me .
it is strange .
' ' stow that ice bucket aboard , ' the colonel said to the second waiter , who had come
“if you don’t give them line when they hook up like that they break it .
she was worried because the police had been to the flat and had asked her questions but she was still
the stem .
only you can ' t pay for that .
we set right there when they started to come in , and they must have just thought we were in
manuel pulled the door tight until it clicked .
” “willie sawyer put me out of his car down below the railway bridge .
they all wanted us to drink from their leather wine-bottles .
" " oh .
i couldn’t have written it .
mentioned .
a big old wrought-iron grating from the front of a house .
“it was so stupid that i had to wait until it was dark to come .
a forty-five-caliber colt pistol which , by its constant pressure , had given him a boil a little below his
then the weight increased and he gave more line .
” “we’re going to have a look , ” wilson said .
' he says you and m ' cola wont be able to talk with the natives there .
he could make her do it all right .
" " it ' s very good .
" " ciaou , " said nick .
above , all the boxes were full .
she shot very well this good , this rich bitch , this kindly caretaker and destroyer of his talent .
" " gad , yes !
was difficult not to jostle people , unintentionally , and each time you stopped to look , to buy ,
aren ' t i ?
“i don’t feel like turning in yet , ” nick said .
cojimar .
” “have a drink , blindy .
think of these things in _num_ —was there a risqué page in puritan history ?
they could not take that away from him .
in a village , twenty kilometres above spezia , there was a crowd in the square , and a young
“right now i need the money badly .
packard , ” nick said .
in the swamp fishing was a tragic adventure .
we turned around and came back out the same way we had gone in , then crossed the open prairie
i do not think brett saw any other bull-fighter .
it is the guide , philosopher , and friend of the thinking minority .
don’t be silly .
tomorrow is better perhaps .
then they began to climb and they were going to the east it seemed , and then it darkened and
“i wish i could talk spick .
i’ll get her to give me a sack to put everything in and i’ll get some dried apricots and some
" " he doesn ' t prefer the newer numbers ?
nick turned off the light and went out , hooking the screen door shut .
' not a damn bit .
one must grant that .
' ' you are not that kind of a soldier and i am not that sort of girl .
hung over her shoulders .
' ' you ' re wrong , ' she said .
“no , ” said jack .
' ' i believe you , ' pop said .
" it ' s wrong of you , jake .
” “yes , but the lack of work kills .
just then the singing really started in again , and you cannot gossip very well shouting , so it looked
he should find things he cannot lose .
the speedy shrimp , the colonel thought , with tentacles longer than the moustaches of that old japanese admiral ,
any too fast on the road .
bal musette they lived above .
what the hell , maybe there never was any spell , the colonel thought .
" " aren ' t i , though ?
he was so sure that brett loved him .
hard hit and the other would keep .
" i ' ve had him for a week .
he seems dumb and he usually smiles instead of talking but that’s because he’s deaf .
sing said .
" " something like a hundred , " i said .
' though i love bach and i am sure cipriani could make one .
canyon , that from above had been a narrow gash , opened to a forest-banked stream .
you got right to the edge of something .
frazer lay in his room with the door open and listened to the noisy , bad music and could not
you know i thought perhaps you would .
she waved to us and fontan went in the house .
“here’s the spring , ” nick said to his sister .
i do not know , he thought truly .
he unstepped the mast and furled the sail and tied it .
" " no , but it always gets to be .
" rye , " the man said .
" so they passed me from one to the other and nothing .
he had confidence .
and sophisticated ; he loved madrid , which was still an unbelievable place , and he loved his work which
they said he fought in the sierra but he was too weak in the chest to continue .
“fellow gave me this for you , ” he said and handed me a rolled-up sort of tube wrapped in
" " three bottles , " madame fontan said .
brett pressed my hand hard .
see him in nairobi with his eyes used to vast distances .
” “i’ve heard his name , ” i said .
i watch close .
" she looked at me again very brightly .
no one has explained what the leopard was seeking at that altitude .
" " we ' ll see it a long time yet .
" down the street came dancers .
but it isn ' t right .
he stood up .
out in front , beyond the red fence , the sand of the ring was smooth-rolled and yellow .
the bawling and the steady noise and slow moving mass raising a dust as you brought them down in the
the waiter uncorked the bottle and poured the glass full , slopping another drink into the saucer .
“i never heard of him , ” said captain willie .
” he lay there thinking of his mermaid while kate’s insteps pressed against his back and she and odgar talked
just so long as it was a real tumbril .
“look what he’s done for marcial lalanda .
i’m just your interpreter .
” “you bastid , ” i said .
' ' so now what ?
" vice , " said the brown young man , " is a very strange thing , james .
it ' s all in the price of the room .
" the two other whores , the big ones , acted very quiet and placid as though they didn '
there was water on both sides of the track , then tamarack swamp .
” “sure , that’s what i’m after .
he held him with the cape and turned him , smoothly and suavely , never wasting the bull .
charge of my secretary when bill gorton and i should shove off to spain the end of june .
“if he is to lose everything , he should not place himself in a position to lose that .
the boy would break his gun and walk back in off the cement toward the pavilion , no expression on
' ' she ' s forgotten , ' the colonel told her .
“he’s pretty tired .
' with the old man and garrick interpreting , i believed i made out that there were two herds .
her in the shed across the top of the big wood .
top of the steep grassy ridge that looked down on to the camp , on to the ravine of the
' wherever that is , ' said the colonel seriously .
” “not now .
then when you get a day that’s perfect you’re ashore without a party .
“but don’t go in if you don’t want to .
my name is hobin .
sighted along the blade .
holding her by the two arms they walked her toward the car .
the whole thing made me feel pretty bad .
in san pier d ' arena , the industrial suburb outside of genoa , there is a wide street with
i did not mind killing anything , any animal , if i killed it cleanly , they all had to
well , when the revolt started , chicote was up at san sebastian running the summer place he had there
i was the first boat out and you never saw water like that was .
how do you do ?
" who ' d want to ?
" " yes , you know it ' s perfectly simple .
when he woke it was dark and the street light on the comer shone through the leaves of the laurels
the editorial page merely as a member of the advisory board , had become the sole editor .
my old man was dead when they brought him in and while a doctor was listening to his heart with
he took a deep breath , drew his knees up , clasped tight and sank , this time with his
“sit down at the table , ” my father said .
" " you ought to feel set up .
that sense blunted when he started to smoke .
" you will finish up .
try and do it some time .
" no , " william campbell said .
” “how many fish did you catch ?
" we sat in the iruña for a while and had coffee and then took a little walk out to
“don’t be a damn fool .
enlistment make yourself responsible only to yourself , you exchange the pleasant , comforting stench of comrades for something you
then he stopped moving and you saw that he was lying flat on his face .
robert doesn ' t think he ' s any good , though .
as they turned out of the door to the right , i saw a closed car come across the square
seventy-five centimes would have been better .
” “how big was he , john ?
“i ain’t never been shot before .
in the reception room of the hospital were the two ambulance surgeons doc fischer and doctor wilcox , sitting ,
” “all right , ” i said .
i could have had alimony , but i got the divorce the quickest way .
went on down and down , sliding along the curved side of her .
' we heard him three or four times .
and make a dream you ' ve killed a man .
now the two came up .
” “and when you come back tell me all about it .
he seemed to hang in the air above the old man in the skiff .
end of the course and the circus master had the stable boys turn them loose one after another so they
" " how ' s your friend cayetano ?
” he added , “with gordon’s gin .
' ' where you wish and when you wish .
from babati we had driven through the hills to the edge of a plain , wooded in a long stretch
she does not receive and she sees almost no one because of her sorrow .
" one of the whores laughed out loud .
the sergeant did not say anything .
bullets and the shelling , and walking toward the river .
then i showed him about the safety and had him put it on and off and snap the gun a
on .
“take hold of my wrist .
well , it would have been all right , maybe , if we’d stayed in milan and ridden at milan
” “i’ll add up my stuff , mr .
' ' perfect , ' pop said .
” “that’s true , ” the porter confirmed .
so after i had the privilege of hearing general walter bedell smith explain the facility of the attack , we
i got to get to a doctor .
" " that ' s very kind of you , " the old man said .
clean , beautiful lines of the boats .
shove with his boots against the horse and lay clear , waiting to be lifted and hauled away and put
i just can ' t sleep .
" this isn ' t going to keep me warm permanently .
" i suppose not .
let me look at her horn .
chased by a huge rhino to-day .
you’re going over to that boat and we’re going to take that man and that boat into custody .
i love it .
then , ahead of us , we saw him , on his back , throat stretched out to the full
' will you tell me some true things about paris ?
aren ' t we all friends , jake ?
there was no chance of kicking this time .
in rain or snow it is much easier to come up close to animals and i was sure we were
” “i have to go , nickie .
and as i put together now what i had seen all day and what i had heard , i felt
were there many smoothies ?
" hello , " he said .
" said brett .
the old calamity of a motor made , there seemed almost to be no wind at all .
” “stop it , ” she said .
” “well , ” i said , “we don’t have to do it .
' ' bad bugs .
' ' take me home , please .
" i asked harris .
' don ' t you think a gimlet might help ?
bank where the stream flowed underground .
in the front row of seats the substitute bull-fight critic of el heraldo took a long drink of the warm
" " he was , you know .
when i came up i thought i wouldn ' t make it to the top before i ' d have
climbed up and cracked his whip , and we drove over the dark bridge and into the town .
five grown men i tell you .
she had opened l’auto and seen where he placed third in paris-tours , his first big race .
the green curtain was buttoned tight and the car swayed but felt very solid and was going fast and once
" " let ' s go in .
" let us go to the battalion .
she wrote our father .
but everything is a trick now .
what it really was that you saw that stayed with you .
leave me the key .
it would be too expensive .
" " it was very funny with the priest , " said the sexton .
dreamed of the different harbours and roadsteads of the canary islands .
” “i imagine they will be glad to have it , ” i said .
the stinking , putrefying part doesn ' t last very long , really , he thought , and anyway you
” the negro splashed water with his hand on the man’s face and pulled his ears gently .
and head her out to sea .
and it ' s a lot of fun , too , to be in love .
” “i see , ” nick said .
' ' i don ' t know what you are talking about , ' the shooter , who was not
” he’d always said it was .
” he said to tom .
' ' do you work on this much ?
, driving the horns into the sand .
" fontan had three bottles of wine .
their handshake was only long enough to feel , firmly , the contact and the pleasure of meeting and then
“no , ” said kate .
that was all he needed .
" that was good liquor .
but it is not nice that i cannot make love and i am sorry that i am not gay .
splash as he fell .
' have one ?
it’s such a long time though .
" will that hold you ?
” “i asked him to eat with me .
” “put some water in it , ” i said .
out of season on the four lire peduzzi had earned by spading the hotel garden he got quite drunk .
then we saw a fresh kudu track beside the trail and then , as we moved through the early morning
two taxis were coming down the steep street .
" come on , " brett said .
once it lead down to the stream , crossed a rivulet of it and then came back up on the
when we had killed anything particularly good .
" " why don ' t you pay me some on account ?
i never liked it .
you could have kept me out of all the trouble i have been in but couldn’t you have a little
” she was crying now and enrique went on eating .
“mine , ” said manolita .
but now he was passing the house where the poor beat-up old boy had lived with his great , sad
” he says to john .
i did not kill this italian .
“about what time do you think i’m going to die ?
he always felt this way coming home at the end of a trip .
“have some more ?
manuel felt tired .
bring the butter , will you .
whole trip .
but i can’t do it .
' he ' s a good man .
he knew road-racing .
” “yes , ” retana said .
they were spread wide and advancing like skirmishers , flashing their electric torches in the weeds .
i said i would go with him , just to devil him .
he ' s got children , and he ' s got money , and he ' s got a rich
" " well , corbett ' ll pick him , " hogan says .
it’s all wrong .
we were overloaded and i did not know how the road was ahead .
” “man , you have very interesting ideas , ” i said .
" " it has the look of a pub , " bill said .
” “there’ll be coals left to start the fire in the morning , ” nick said .
he swung these down to the table and a boy who had followed him poured coffee and milk into the
" i have my duty here .
he was a continual eavesdropper .
” they lay together in the blankets .
but the people who praise it , praise it for the rhetoric which is not important .
' that ' s because you can slide .
have you had a good time here all afternoon ?
what about it ?
“don’t be so tough so early in the morning .
then we hunted on our various theories of where the bull would go , but the country was too big
if he doesn ' t maybe he will come up with the moon .
the old place .
” “your bloody money , ” he said .
came up , followed by the porters .
' we haven ' t kept track of him in venice .
we never saw it in such numbers .
' ' i don ' t want to be a sorrow .
a hollowness of loving , now no longer hollow , and the two sets of lips in the dark ,
the colonel paid him the pittance that they cost , which must have been much greater than the pittance those
” “don’t even be that .
in some annoying way .
” “if i could have the money now .
” “would you like a drink of something ?
” “it was a very lovely place , ” said my wife .
maize field .
' ' i made them early .
" and jake kept interrupting me .
" that romero lad is just a child .
and we ' ll go .
hogan came to the door and i said , " say , hogan , haven ' t you got anything
“nobody going to come out with this breeze , ” he thought .
” “long walk , ” mrs .
” “anything you do too bloody long .
“they probably hunted them out with those big swamp buggies with the huge tires .
i’ll give you three hundred francs .
with shade-trees on both sides , and then levelling out through the new part of town they are building up
nicholas adams drove on through the town along the empty , brick-paved street , stopped by traffic lights that flashed
then he swung the left and it hit walcott in the groin and the right hit walcott right bang where
executioner the time they killed coconas and me , and i remember the eve of st .
cohn stood up and took off his glasses .
why were copies made to lose them with the originals ?
stronger when i took my first drink at the crowded bar .
him , the boy paco , those two you have just seen in the leather coats and the caps ,
' ' it ' s a one-man show , ' pop said .
“your girl go home with somebody else ?
” “nor to the horses .
' ' he is not here , ' the assistant manager said .
try and find something heavier than the wrench but i couldn ' t find a thing ; not even a
“captain doctor .
but i don’t .
and i started out to look for her .
her head was down .
" you ' re with a lucky boat .
an old woman stood in the doorway holding a lamp .
” “shoot him then , ” said the doctor .
“i’m talking too much .
” “no , ” krebs said .
“let’s have another drink , ” nick said .
" monsieur il fait les books .
" " and the one who shot you ?
let ' s go over to the suizo , " i said .
wish he wouldn ' t keep going off like a cat , though .
but i don ' t want you to do it if you don ' t really want to .
around the major’s eyes were two white circles where his snow-glasses had protected his face from the sun on the
' you should have seen him when he was protecting mama , ' pop said .
yesterday he bought the flit gun and agua de colonia to use for a joke at a wedding .
' ' did you really like rommel ?
" " do you think so ?
“we were there on our honeymoon .
at that moment he felt him stop moving but the weight was still there .
her face clearly as we came out on the avenue des gobelins .
if they do not have followers they invent them .
' there was no choice now .
' hemingway is a name i have heard .
” “i was a boy myself once , ” the big prisoner said .
“and how do you like that ?
the old man could hardly breathe now and he felt a strange taste in his mouth .
return into the same hole they had made in the water when they leaped .
" " couldn ' t you get out of town ?
we had gone about a mile keeping absolutely quiet and walking in single file , abdullah the educated tracker leading
" let ' s go and find him .
' ' will we see cinema people and speak about them with candour and perhaps not have a drink with
“don’t you remember ?
it would be the most sportif country in the world .
quite a little had gone through , always on the road to the right .
' ' bastards , ' said p .
” “because that explains it to you .
” nobody moved .
i was beginning to be a little tired of the extremaduran .
that was on the black river .
” retana leaned forward across the desk and pushed a wooden box of cigarettes toward manuel .
they started at six o ' clock less a quarter in the morning .
' very big cows .
i could only care about people a very few at a time .
his father said , “you better go to bed , nick .
then they were over the first hills and the wildebeeste were trailing up them , and then they were over
the seriousness with which the honourable pacciardi took the post of minister of defence of an indefensible country was a
” william campbell breathed in and out through the sheet .
' ' it ' s a shame , though , with all that talent gone to malice and nonsense and
" you ' re going to work to-day , " i said .
this hum went on , and we were in it and a part of it .
" " hernandez , i think .
" " you ' d have a hell of a time explaining that to these sport writers though , "
do shove it along , michael , " brett said .
he worked back to where he could feel with his foot the coils of line that he could not see
had a husband and children , who had taken lovers and been dissatisfied with them , and who loved him
then get your hand in order because there still is more to come .
' ' we must mechanize the honourable pacciardi , ' the bar-tender said .
“but the head isn’t worth as much .
" i wouldn ' t mind bird-shot any .
' ' well , well , ' said pop .
afraid they might have got into cover .
“son of a bitch , ” said billy .
green , and the flags hung on their staffs , and it was good to get out of the sun
maybe two things i will think about and get rid of them .
” “there was one man , ” madame fontan said , “and his wife never lets him get out .
any time thursday .
you never asked me to prove anything .
or anything about them .
of the sun that was drying my wet shirt and along the top of a series of grassy valleys ,
his sister watched him .
the blow hurt not only his hands but his shoulder too .
the long lines of trees were dark in the moonlight .
there was still sunlight on the opposite side of the square but the gondoliers preferred to be sheltered from the
they crouched in a point of dried reeds before we started .
they were a club of some sort , and all wore workmen ' s blue smocks , and red handkerchiefs
" that ' s the way with everything .
perhaps he had been wrong .
but he made the back seat all right and he shut the door .
" " i am a veteran of the iritrea campaign , " said the adjutant stiffly .
" " he knocked mike down , too , " edna said .
they took off over the big hedge of the water-jump in a pack and then there was a crash ,
oh he’s lovely .
" i ' ve prayed and i ' ve done everything and nothing helps .
' " " did you understand it all ?
i wish it had been a dream now and that i had never hooked the fish and was alone in
“i am a diplomat , aren’t i ?
on over the ridge in the shelter of which we lay .
he dropped the grasshopper so the current took it under water , back in under the overhanging branch .
" your goddam pig ' s feet stink , " tom said , and spit what he had in his
and took them out and sat in an easy chair in the sun to read about and catch up on
" " i can ' t stand it .
wish me luck boy .
your father has felt for some time that you should be able to take the car out in the evenings
“let’s not talk rot , ” the man said .
hello , ' he said .
below to the left was the river .
” “what about the russians ?
” “come on , let’s go some place where we can get some real beer , ” one of them
“that’s just the way they talk in the emporium , ” littless said .
i looked at the trees and the lake again to remember them and all around ; at the hills in
“let me help you strap the pack .
two hundred yards into the broken cactus .
for if the fish ' s course held true i must see it for many more hours .
” “what’s the matter , francis ?
" the little greek portrait-painter , who called himself a duke , and whom everybody called zizi , pushed up
they used to do that in the civil war .
he’s just the typical fashion plate of a young college gentleman .
he had had his life and it was over and then he went on living it again with different people
as soon as we can get the divorce .
you , in the rear-guard , must be as firm as we will be at the front .
” morgan asks him .
foot .
“i get tired this .
' it ' s a hell of a life , ' i told him in english .
too , and bill took another pernod .
i can’t stand this pain and cold i tell you .
hortons bay , the town , was only five houses on the main road between boyne city and charlevoix .
i do not think so either .
the night was clearing and the moon was out .
and loved her .
" now for the first time she dropped her bright , terribly cheerful manner .
now he would have liked a girl if she had come to him and not wanted to talk .
crest .
suddenly seeing it clearly , as you can see clearly and justly before you die ; seeing its hopelessness ,
the cage .
he knows all about it now and he will never trust me again .
' you old bastard .
" the cab stopped in front of the hotel and we all got out and went in .
where these things always happen .
" " i cannot read it .
" i ' ll eat some more for you .
' ' that one , ' the colonel said .
but he felt faint again .
but i have no real information .
_ _num_ st soldier_--he didn ' t want to come down off the cross .
don’t you remember about we ?
brett held him and wouldn ' t let him get up .
it was steep walking , and we went all the way up to the place contrescarpe .
he lies there with his eyes shut .
' ' do you think it is necessary to have been born at the time to know about things that
he knew he could never get through it all again .
that was on account of the difference in time , too , and mr .
' rub it , ' i told him and rubbed mine to show him how .
; although living in daily association with people who used drugs , he had a horror of drugs , and
garbage pickers who pluck their prizes with long poles , as interested , as intelligent , and as accurate as
it was much too heavy .
" " i tire you talking ?
we could go up to bruges , or to the ardennes .
“where you go ?
" we have to follow this road along the ridge , cross these hills , go through the woods on
' ' good fliers are very good and should be respected as such , ' the colonel said .
yes , a white hunter .
i don ' t want to see you until eleven hundred to-morrow in the lobby , unless you get into
mike and bill came in half an hour later .
” “already we paid seven hundred fifty-five dollars in fines when they arrested fontan .
the young gentleman went outside the door with a glass for peduzzi but could not see him .
the sergeant was still breathing .
" do look after mike , " brett said .
a big percentage .
” “nickie , they’ll never find us here .
” “you don’t have to repeat it .
in the front row of seats the substitute bull-fight critic of _el heraldo_ took a long drink of the warm
of the calm .
they might have fought .
he was hunting now .
" is ole andreson here ?
the whole hillside is cut by those gullies and it’s all enfiladed at least three ways by machine-gun posts .
, that he doesn ' t remember anything about us .
she put her hands under her apron and looked away from me .
" why he went in and found brett and the bull-fighter chap in the bull-fighter ' s room , and
” “they’re built like your face , ” he said .
it ' s very hard to get anything true on anything you haven ' t seen yourself because the ones
” “talk quiet , ” i said .
” “but you have a feeling of happiness about action to come ?
he floated rapidly , kicking .
we might as well wait until it gets light to start .
i still had the sevastopol book of tolstoy and in the same volume i was reading a story called '
“you say it all you want , ” she said and kissed him .
… how when he thought he saw her outside the regence one time it made him go all faint and
" " no ; listen , jake .
always , though , you crossed a bridge across a canal to enter the hospital .
“huh !
" " i did not ask that .
they came from a good place , without sewerage , and the colonel asked to have six opened .
a little piombo .
i stepped aside to avoid walking into the thread with which his girl assistant manipulated the boxers .
and paid out quite a lot of rope and the boat swung in against the mangroves so they came right
there was a little current there that kept it open for a while .
he was very tired .
they’ll go anyway .
” “they’re what you call wise boys , ” hogan said .
" " why , " i said .
" " all the time she reads .
joe reached out in the dark with the whip .
i showed them the papers , which were written in very beautiful language and full of fratellanza and abnegazione ,
” “let’s eat , ” i said .
elliot kept on at the château in touraine because he had taken it for all summer .
out that he , packard , looked like gypsy smith and everything would be fine finally .
” he looked at her and saw her crying .
" i ' ll pay it back , " mike said .
“good , ” said bill .
i wouldn ' t read them .
johnson , ” said eddy , who’d waked up to have another bottle of beer— “mr .
i hoped we might find the rhino but while we came on much fresh rhino dung there were no tracks
" " you ' re not an aficionado ?
“it breaks your heart the way he loves you and the boys .
” “i like to sit here with you .
” “i can’t do it .
" " yes , " they say .
man or what .
" it ' s nothing to worry about .
second waiter .
so he pointed out a gunner’s mate , most inoffensive chap .
francis macomber the capital of the world the snows of kilimanjaro old man at the bridge up in michigan on
she kissed me , and while she kissed me i could feel she was thinking of something else .
” “that is fear , ” said another soldier .
was at home but that he had also traveled .
' meat ?
both monsieur and madame were there .
“i’m taking him home to my little girl .
" " i can give you ham and eggs , bacon and eggs , liver---- " " i ' ll
they had the true opposition at the other beach .
" they went back to their corners .
at the farmhouse everybody got down .
now the boat was lying quietly against the mangroves but he could not stop feeling the motion of the big
' you want to know ?
i told him we were all coming down together .
“the victory , ” he said very quietly in spanish , his mouth disdaining the word , and shifted softly
” “i hated it .
he saw no sign of anyone and he went down to the stream and then downstream and back up to
" i can see you have been wounded , " he said to nick .
" " the gambler , the nun , and the radio " was first published under the title , "
then he walked up to the tent .
the houses in the villages had red tiled roofs , and then the road turned off and commenced to climb
the rhine does not show in the picture .
he must work to get the bull ' s head down , so he could go in past the horns
” “i would take a nap , nicolo , ” paravicini said .
" " it was papa made me leave .
“your car is dirty and you are dirty too .
i have half of him , he thought .
to tom .
with him was the skinny , dirty , wanderobo with the slit and curled up ears who stood on one
they were still waiting for the tickets to go on sale at seven o ' clock .
i’ll remind you if you forget .
buildings and outbuildings of what was now a ruined country house once built by longhena showed where the mediums had
i decided not to ask permission but to send word where i was dining .
we all had good shooting but it was best out on the lake and for three days afterward , travelling
” “listen , i don’t drink very much but is a quinine very good for fever .
been to a big revival by somebody like gypsy smith , that great evangelist , but finally it would turn
he had sold one , cheaply , before christmas and another in the first week of april .
now where they were camped for the night his father said , “i’ve never seen that type of francolin quite
he went out of the room looking back at the two men at the table .
" she was sitting up now .
by the idea of making money from copra .
not that old displaced engine boat .
“couldn’t you just be good to me and let me go ?
_ _num_ st soldier_--oh , he ain ' t lucky .
you know he ' s extraordinary about buying champagne .
in the dark going up the gran via there was much new broken glass on the sidewalk and much rubble
“she’s a mighty fine woman , ” he said .
cola with signs that we would circle back in a long swing to the road and see if we could
haven ' t you got some more jewish friends you could bring along ?
" want a smoke ?
" ask her if she ' s got any jam , " bill said .
they came to paris and most of their friends from the boat came back too .
he would like to have one of them .
” “nope .
" " i heard it was a tricycle .
the raft made a dark shadow .
the waiter who was in a hurry came over .
' ' you could tell me if you would .
she smiled as she opened the bottles .
of the herd .
he knew that each of the jerking bumps of the shark had been meat torn away and that the fish
' beer , ' said m ' cola .
' ' who is that ?
for a pillow and got in between the blankets .
and it made me wish we were back at the lake .
the man looked up .
“that happy steinfelt’s a big operator .
we would get water in camp .
it was another hot day .
' this very young lady wants a breakfast to end breakfasts .
nick took it from his hook book , sitting with the rod across his lap .
" thank you , " cayetano said .
you come back here all right ?
on the mountain road to the bains de alliez and the beer-drinking contest where we failed to win the calf
” we went on up the road past the houses of the town to the inn .
had been picked up by the inside of the hoof , was not yet softened by the rain .
then m ' cola fell in the dark and the old man and i laughed .
” “how were you when you sighted them ?
” “we aren’t going to fight any more today .
we kill them all right .
to see what they wanted to drink .
fontan felt terribly .
” we heard the door unlock .
i was firing too with a smeizer on the slits and my back was wet and i had stuff all
the matador who had once been a novelty was very short and brown and very dignified .
there was a tree made shade over fontan ' s back porch and i sat there at a table and
a river-bed that , when we had passed , going into italy , had been wide , stony and dry
“do you want another glass of milk ?
he looks a little bit like georgie patton , the colonel thought .
fun of all .
that they were geometrically clear .
i ' ve been at pamplona , you know .
“who’s matching who ?
and i put her in the shed across the top of the big wood .
sad and curious , ” the waiter said .
make some crack about primo de rivera .
" now let ' s sleep a while , john .
three of them were barreras , the first row at the ring-side , and three were sobrepuertos , seats with
" you ' re an awfully good girl .
" " i know they do .
it isn ' t bad .
“i’d like to .
i never watched the cleaning up unless i had to take part in it myself .
" want to start now ?
the other prisoner looked at my father .
the sun was down behind the hill and the weather was good .
only i’d stopped thinking about it .
' ' you needn ' t be , ' the second waiter said .
don ' t you know people don ' t give answers to such questions ?
” the gentleman took out a card from the pocketbook and gave it to harris .
" an industrial accident , " the doctor said .
said rolly !
i’m not sleepy at all really .
side in the shade from the tree .
in some high grass we found blood , at a pretty good height on the grass leaves on both sides
" he learned his english as a waiter in gib .
it is worth it .
" " i know it ' s silly , " nick said .
we kept along the face of this hill on a pleasant sort of jutting plateau and then came out to
and arranged in a looped fringe on their foreheads .
there were some grass huts of fishermen in the shade of the last trees and ahead the wind blew across
how it is there early in the morning in havana with the bums still asleep against the walls of the
' and i said : ' oh , any medals .
to continue to use the silly parlance of my trade : this could or could not be faulty intelligence .
" " all right , " manuel said .
" " we are robbing you .
“come on , al , ” said max .
i don ' t want to be reclassified .
beyond the hedge , he saw a low red farmhouse with a big barn .
i told her how since the death of joselito all the bull-fighters had been developing a technic that simulated this
while they were in our corner i watched him tie walcott up , get his right hand loose , turn
but you know it ' s fun not to joke too rough .
they all shook hands in a strange way that i had never known in which they took your thumb in
we finally were out and on the main road back to town .
where i live in the north they don ' t drink any wine .
" " you won ' t take a cigar ?
i ' ve tried so very hard , but she doesn ' t seem to take an interest in anything
“doing a cæsarian with a jack-knife and sewing it up with nine-foot , tapered gut leaders .
' ' and no one will come in and make remarks and speak badly of me ?
it had that aged look you see in photographs of jeffries and sharkey posing thirty years after , the ugly
' but i would like to get what i wish for now .
together at a table in the corner .
she started all that .
pass , went through the scrub woods and through villages .
everybody liked him and whenever i’d come into the café in the forenoon i’d find somebody drinking with him because
during this time robert ' s mother had settled an allowance on him , about three hundred dollars a month
" " it ' s not so good in the daytime , " i said .
it comes in small cracking whispers that precede the noise of the automatic weapon .
he has no such thing ?
“and they couldn’t handle that one little shrimp .
and it was sad to know that shooting did not mean a thing .
give it the generic title of waterloo .
" i asked guy .
“come out here , ” the down-state warden said .
i never joke people .
be made fast to the other spare coils so that , if it were necessary , a fish could take
” “we’re making a picture of it .
' ' you ' re a good boy , ' the colonel said .
; it had only made him feel nasty .
any time you saw really strange looking civilians in madrid they were always in the radio .
' i am very proud and happy to be a member of the order , ' the girl said .
there is much to be done before we will ever reach that stage again .
it smelled good outside though .
and garrick .
you ' ll pick one up somewhere .
" qu ' est-ce que vous avez comme fusil ?
and then there is one where i come into your life when you are disgusted and disappointed with all women
this is all great for the crowd .
" the girl looked across at the hills .
it was all gone and i have never had it again .
at the end of the pass they were facing each other again .
' ' no , ' said the colonel .
we could have stayed in paris or gone anywhere .
” “me either .
it was funnier to see a hyena shot at a great distance , in the heat shimmer of the plain
, and holding with both hands and , first pulling , then shoving , until the pole-hold was well to
built by my mother .
his jaw only went further out .
" " he depresses me so .
" we ' d better walk with him .
” “i’m going in to bathe , ” she said .
the american lady’s bed was the one next to the window .
" " he goes to see her every day .
poor karl .
chapter xxxii ' you slept quite well for a time , ' the girl told him , lovingly and gently
” juma had come to him grinning , bringing the tail of the elephant that had no hairs on it
frazer could hear them all laughing and merry with the music made by the mexicans who had been sent by
“takes you sometimes three or four hours to get so you can do it though .
" it is doubtless a common experience , " said johnson , " like the first visit to the dentist
” “sí , señor , ” said the mexican , who was named cayetano ruiz .
he never showed any tendency to circle back .
" " i don ' t know , " said harris .
“and a quarter litre of red wine , ” the sexton told the girl .
" so long , jerry , " he says .
she was worried too .
you might as well stay in bed .
also please do not ever hit andrea because he is my friend .
and in the first light the line extended out and down into the water .
“i am a very reliable interpreter .
" you might , " he said .
“we honor them .
she had been afraid last night they would pass out .
, silhouetted on the rise of bank in the gray morning light , his shoulders heavy , his barrel of
what woman in the world did you think could be as sound as a good secondhand buick car ?
" here , would you like to look ?
_num_ (that is one o ' clock and five minutes after in the afternoon , if you can remember that
now the moors .
the hell there wasn ' t !
each other , the happiness there with no pain , the being home suddenly there with no pain , the
knowing what i know now and having what we have now .
why don ' t you pick out some nice italian girl with plenty of money .
please hold me very close and let ' s not talk , or think , about how things might have
" he was a little near-sighted .
’ ” “yeah , ” he said .
" none of these guys are going to send you away , though .
are you all right ?
he was angry .
making the horizon were the brown mountains .
" i could see how it had been .
" " i don ' t .
he had not built it .
out of the window of the hospital you could see a field with tumbleweed coming out of the snow ,
it made a good ending to the story .
he looked kind of disappointed .
and we were attacking all the time and every day .
the old man ' s head was very old though and with his eyes closed there was no life in
you had a tough day .
" well , that ' s one thing you never had to worry about , " john said .
i’m only a middle-aged woman who loves you and wants to do what you want to do .
it was a very sad noise .
” “where did you hit him ?
" the wind blew the band music away .
' i loved her fine .
' ' check carefully .
” “we’ll have to arrange it .
' ' that was nice of you and shows it has served some useful purpose .
comes straight down here , sometimes in his pyjamas just with a coat over them .
it’s my mother .
“i’m all right now for quite a while .
" " they ' re good .
" albacore , " he said aloud .
you have to be a tough boy in this town to be loved , the colonel thought .
" come on , " the old man said aloud .
" he can ' t be that big .
cohn was sitting there .
the peasant looked out of the window .
a big river .
” “i thought i could get you an air-conditioned one .
' ' i can ' t drink to that swine , ' the girl said .
” “but you see that’s the way i am .
“encore un coup manqué , ” i said .
" " so am i .
' m ' cola asked .
jack and i took one and the rest of them went on and had two or three each .
” “no thanks .
division .
he did not want them themselves really .
“i must tire you .
" yes , like algabeno .
" he looked around for the bird now because he would have liked him for company .
” “you don’t want to get in any trouble either , do you ?
i had rewritten them so many times and gotten them just how i wanted them and i knew i could
red .
i will take first that following the austrian offensive of june , _num_ , in italy as one in which
it was necessary for the austrians to try to break through at the angle where the sile river and the
” “they’re poisonous fading you too .
' ' you put it a little bluntly , ' the colonel said .
they kept it up for more than a dozen shots .
” “that was a wonder .
this i learned in a place called the pentagon building when i was still permitted to enter that building by
“anyway , i want a cat , ” she said , “i want a cat .
what comes into your head first .
' ' even if i don ' t get one at all , it ' s all right .
they never found any bodies .
these masai , however , ate bread , cold mincemeat , and plum pudding with great relish and much laughter
" somebody shot him in the back .
dick kneeled down in the sand and looked at the mark of the scaler’s hammer in the wood at the
come , come .
enrique said , “leche , ” again .
his people come in and dress him .
” “you got to be tough , ” nick said .
, burst , and sloughed off in pus .
once i knew it , it was hard to talk to him .
he drank an anis at the bar and looked at the people .
” “i’m going to have to leave now , ” i said to frankie .
president , and to the public of madrid , the most intelligent and generous of the world , ” was
” “he couldn’t bring her out at all ?
' ' and live happily ever after .
went out for a while .
” “the tackle’s your risk .
' late now .
i had never liked him and i liked him less now .
" " i don ' t believe she would marry anybody she didn ' t love .
then we liked them all right .
“nothing , ” he said .
” she asked seriously .
m .
he never laughed .
” “it had a funny name .
about a length and riding way out , and light as a monkey , and they were racing for the
' we ' ve been through three provinces of spain to-day .
” “what i said was , whose boat is it ?
” “good-night , nickie .
besides he said that whisky kept his weight down .
” then i told the turk the man was being sent on board ship and would be most severely dealt
i do not smoke , and hunting at home i have several times smelled elk in the rutting season before
" do you want me to read to you ?
” “i can stay up all night , ” the local warden said .
” captain willie asked again .
" " frances is coming here at seven-fifteen .
he folded the star open and propped it against the water pitcher with his cereal dish to steady it ,
buzzard .
on his hands and knees out to join us .
we could not see the horns and when we got up to the top of the hill the sun was
" " we don ' t charge too much money .
” “go on and say it .
too , go to bologna .
then we something , something , then embrace .
well spaced as though it were a park .
on the screw-on top of the flask was engraved from r .
hard against his thigh .
” “i’m sure .
there were still some trees between us and the open meadow below and we were behind a small bush and
“how long have you been stewed , billy ?
' ' i wanted to take the necessary precautions , sir , on your valuable property .
' ' are they not really good ?
he came down to san sebastian where he damn well wasn ' t wanted .
i ' m going to fish the dam here .
could see snow on their tops , but they made no shadow , and in the valley the grain-fields were
" " keep warm old man , " the boy said .
and an officer from the brigade .
“you can hear them chew .
robert hutchins _num_ surfside drive miami beach and handed the book back .
and you didn’t see her when she was all hot like that inside .
they had plenty of money .
' ' it wouldn ' t be fair to pop , ' i said .
“all i saw was the ham .
and do exactly as i tell you .
" put it back , " said the bartender .
" " you ' ve got to take that back .
the bird had flown up when the line jerked and the old man had not even seen him go .
there was running water on each side of the tracks , clear spring water with a brown swamp bottom and
" the drinker waggled his little finger at him and smiled at us with his eyes .
he felt , vaguely , a little sick , as though it would be better to sit down .
” “i thought you knew , ” said enrique .
" " i say , weren ' t you there ?
it was not worth the trouble .
he felt no strain nor weight and he held the line lightly .
" " pretty quiet , ain ' t it ?
to find this emergency listed in his book .
we’ll start to have it now .
his mother knows it and it’s all right .
no , he would not write that , although it was well worth writing .
il y a trop de polack .
" " can you really remember that or did i just tell it to you ?
when did you get into this town ?
he’ll have gone by and picked it up before dark .
" " i can ' t do it .
there was cayetano ruiz , a small-town gambler with a paralyzed leg .
" what did she say ?
' now let ' s not be morbid and look for all the places where my friends live .
of life in this right little tight little island .
” “would you please please please please please please please stop talking ?
” “we’re going a long way .
have done everything in my power to prevent you from being certified as one .
but the rush of the wind took them out when he opened the door and slapped them out with his
you have no idea .
he had made my rhino look so small that i could never keep him in the same small town where
they did not want them , and we lived on poireaux and drank cahors and water_) , and how fine
" " i guess i said a lot of fool things .
besides i’ve got a family .
what a lot of bilge i could think up at night .
nick spread the mouth of the sack against the current and it filled , heavy with water .
” “i’ll see , ” said frankie .
” he was watching the bottom of the spring where the sand rose in small spurts with the bubbling water
" he said , " isn ' t it an awful face ?
" that your great desire isn ' t really-- " pinin looked at the floor .
“thanks .
' i ' m awfully glad you got yours , ' karl said .
' but everyone must comply with his duty and here the rules are reasonable and we all should comply with
hear the head hit the pavement .
me down again with a jerk on my arm and none of us breathing as we saw him standing in
" " this is a hell of a dull talk , " brett said .
" guy asked .
' ' and what will you drink ?
how much do you need ?
really the damnedest .
' so-so , ' the boatman said .
“yes , we must .
" what does it matter if he gets what he ' s after ?
' i guess a man would do better now not to build himself a fine house or a church ,
the evening breeze blew the smoke toward the point , so marjorie spread the blanket out between the fire and
“you’re a regular little gentleman .
" " no , " said cohn , " what time is it ?
romero did always , smoothly , calmly , and beautifully , what he , belmonte , could only bring himself
, heavy-bodied , short wings drumming , cackling , to go over the trees ahead .
” “when’s it for ?
" " i wonder if he does .
" " be careful or you will fear even the reds of cincinnati and the white sox of chicago .
it would be quiet in san sebastian .
i’ve just about cut it out .
they lie like round checker counters wider than the biggest soup plates and toad squatted in their thick deadliness .
i read the papers with the coffee and then smoked a cigarette .
“no it’s not .
her bible , her copy of science and health and her quarterly were on a table beside her bed in
now i regard it as an excellent sign .
' ' i have read only the one thing .
please tell me .
" he shoved the sliced cucumbers away and took a pickled herring .
now the man watched the dip of the three sticks over the side of the skiff and rowed gently to
” harris asked .
quite true , too .
they came in carrying quarters of tommy , grant , and wildebeeste , dusty , the meat seared dry by
jack climbed up and bent down to go through the ropes and walcott came over from his corner and pushed
the bullet had made a crack when it hit like a bat swung against a fast ball and the buck
take our skis and go on the train to where there was good running and then go on and put
and you .
one lira .
' ' yes .
” came the nigger’s soft voice .
” two other people had been in the lunch-room .
“it means just that , but it always surprises you .
' i know how to fight forwards and how to fight backwards and what else ?
a very fat woman came to the door .
from the bar you could watch your luggage , just as well as the two _pescecani_ were watching theirs .
“i always wanted to be a boy anyway .
mother and i always wanted to get over , but we had to wait a while .
” “you good old littless .
” “hombre , sí .
i was wondering whether it was worth while getting up to get the dictionary to ask about the kidneys when
” “all right , ” his mother said chokily .
we sat with our heads down in the blind , each covering a different direction through openings in the thatched
' ' no , let me ask the price .
said , “want an ice , joe ?
everything outside look the same anyway .
to reach the edge of the hill .
he pic-ed in the hot afternoon sun for big money .
" " pretty good , " jack said .
didn ' t do a thing .
my ground-sheet tent was slung between a tree and one side of the chicken coop and i sat down on
the bull wanted it again , and romero ' s cape filled again , this time on the other side
the waitress brought in three litres of new wine for the gang and they sat at the two tables ,
we’re under the american consul .
' ' would you reclassify me if i lied ?
he ain’t got no sense of humor at all .
it was hard work walking up-hill .
gap in the forest he saw broken country ahead .
" " why are not all the opiums of the people , good ?
“they look like white elephants , ” she said .
" i think she ' s perfectly charming .
but i have never been in any tumbril , and i would like to hear about paris .
" " i ' m not being funny .
we set the traps well beyond the cross roads so that we would not louse up the cross roads and
he had a pocket full of arm bands .
he stopped the car and studied the opening with his field glasses .
“i’m sorry i didn’t realize that .
away you ran up against the two stubbornnesses : south america could fix it and he did not like paris
“that makes no difference to me , ” said the extremaduran .
robert cohn was asleep , but bill looked and nodded his head .
let ' s get out of this .
it is better not to be specific and a civilian wouldn ' t understand it .
i should have known better .
" the waitress went away .
" we ' d have gotten here earlier if you hadn ' t come .
he saw the girl watching him and he smiled at her .
there were very few people there at that hour and two waiters and the manager came over to the table
romero was in the centre , belmonte on his left , marcial on his right .
“ask juma .
the bridle caught in the horns .
the sky was a high clear blue and the clouds came up white and detached themselves from behind the hills
" " you will not , " nick said .
i bringing him in ?
also , playing for higher stakes than he could afford in some rather steep bridge games with his new york
“let’s get clean and lie on the sand , ” she said and they swam and dove in the clean
the whole trip had taken only ten days .
not into nada but deliver us from nada ; pues nada .
' ' i see , ' the colonel said .
" did you come in to cheer me up ?
nick tied the rope that served the tent for a ridge-pole to the trunk of one of the pine trees
he said he had a date with brett at san sebastian .
” “he’s a bohemian , ” the lad who brought the gloves said .
" she was gone out of the room .
i got out the dictionary and asked the old man if there were any dogs at the roman ' s
" " and the spear ?
he felt all the old feeling .
_denatured africa .
" " good night then .
" " i ' m pretty religious .
they were moving more slowly now and the glow of havana was not so strong , so that he knew
it embarrassed him , sister cecilia said .
he was having a very quiet time , he said , bathing , playing some golf and much bridge .
i would be happy with any kudu .
impossible but it was not as interesting as it sounded , and , besides , it would be in a
” “many of the confrères present ?
maybe it was just because they were drinking .
” he’d say .
hubert elliot was taking postgraduate work in law at harvard when he was married .
i could see her floating plain and i hit the glass twice with the wrench hard and i heard the
' ' it is a business habit .
“feel bad ?
ready with the un-needed aid to the elbow of the ascending or descending passenger , always ready to help when
, particles of phosphorus floated off and drifted slowly astern .
wheeler watched to see if she spoke to the porters .
the moon affects her as it does a woman , he thought .
they were off the ground and sheltered now .
, then me , m ' cola , and garrick , when we saw the road was wet ahead of
“i’ll never lie to you .
we could not find it .
' ' it was very funny .
Ça , c’est le meilleur .
see the curve before you drop down ?
you must know .
blowing away in clouds as you looked , into the tree-shaded , pretty , whitewashed , german model-garrison town of
m ' cola said , ' beer ?
” “henry ?
” “were they—were they—” “were they what ?
, involuntarily , feeling the nail go through his hands and into the wood .
when he saw the shark he leaned over the side and punched at him .
the cook turned and said to her quickly , “you big disgusting mountain of flesh .
" i have confidence .
” “listen , santa claus , ” al said .
' the shooter called to the boatman .
the negro was frightened and he put his fingers all the way around the string of blue voodoo beads and
men carrying stretchers wound down through the gap to where , on the flat at the foot of the ridge
both the austrian and pop had said that , i had to go .
" il y a trop de churches .
it was just beginning to be daylight when they walked along the logging road back toward the lake .
” “tonight’s my night , ” the young fellow who was playing said .
we saw the headlight coming up the hill .
though , probably , i am wrong , as i have been so many times .
" " you asked me what i knew about brett ashley .
" i am happy about what has happened to my mother , " he said .
” “much better .
pop was older and more tolerant for his years and the same sort of company .
you went to sleep .
the bed .
put his hand on her head and neck .
and the big , graceful ears were beautiful .
” “what politics have you ?
" nick opened the door and went into the room .
zurito leaned forward on the barrera , leaning the weight of his body on his arms .
' ' well , it ' s a damn pleasant story .
“i haven’t done anything for us all day .
and wrapped it around a cut stick and tied it tight with a piece of fish line .
there were many large white clouds and the tall trees of the forest on the mountain side grew so closely
i wanted a hot bath in deep water .
" who are you ?
" you know i ' ve got to have one good pic , " manuel said .
form of souvenir .
on his sides showed wide and a light lavender .
i bought them while you were away so that you would not have to spend money at the bar .
_ _num_ d soldier_--just for two , george .
“take another , ” i shouted .
“how about eating ?
then , in my grandfather ' s time , michigan was a malaria ridden state .
until we could be above and see into the pocket of the curve at the upper end to glass it
now i must convince him and then i must kill him .
that ' s true .
all the same ; half-pound one ounce .
they were to eat , and ahead we could see the car looking very small and beyond it a stretch
the porter was awake and looking at me .
“they’re having plenty of trouble over there aren’t they , ” the man behind the counter said to him .
he had continued to come to the fiesta each year after he was married .
three of them were the men who had first thrown the flit king out .
“and afterward they were all so happy .
" i should have a musette full of chocolate .
he did not look up at us .
we entered a break in the thorn-bush fence and inside was a building of logs and saplings stuck in the
i can ' t get this second book going .
“it would certainly be very silly to land them there .
he’s ugly , she thought , ugly and hateful .
b ' wana kabor kidogo , kidogo ' .
he lay for a long time with his face in the pillow , and after a while he forgot to
be when i went back to the front again .
the moon was just rising now behind the far hills and enough moonlight came through the trees for nick to
the porter went ahead with the bags .
“et aussi , il y a trop de polack .
gone to sleep .
" brett exclaimed .
” “that next big cape ought to put it out of sight .
“one , ” he answered .
if not i ' ll come at night when i have something to bring .
finally he put the mast down and stood up .
“nothing , ” macomber said .
' ' take plenty of beer then .
' i hit the damned buff , ' i said .
i couldn’t do it .
“well , they’re horses .
, and the second was said to be too headstrong and quarrelsome to stay with any matador more than a
“just the same it isn’t always a good thing to say what you know , ” i said .
the flask was flat and of silver with a leather cover .
well , by god , i always said i’d run chinamen if i was ever broke .
' they turned into the side street and walked towards its blind end .
" why didn ' t you hit him with a chair ?
with her and that every one knew it .
" very , very short .
” “sure you do .
perhaps is an ugly word , he thought , but it is even worse on the end of your cigar
“nothing .
“you see , nick , babies are supposed to be born head first but sometimes they’re not .
suddenly , poisoned with envy , i did not want to see mine again ; never , never .
and my feet are tough from going barefoot all summer .
” “if he wanted us he would have signaled us .
” “at the hotel .
after about forty pistols they seemed to get bored with this and anyway all you could smell was wet leather
' ' yeah .
' ' how are you ?
went to the war and remembering back from one thing to another .
back the bolt to cock the rifle as i dropped .
" it ' s a fine crowd you ' re with , brett , " i said .
' let me have another , ' i said .
" " don ' t understand , " she said .
other range of hills that headed it .
nick held the basin for his father .
one that was condemned and you could work it over .
he nodded violently and said , ' good .
" we ' ve all been around .
fishermen all turned carpenters .
tin cup to mix the flour with water to make a batter .
as he ran , his jacket flopped where it had been ripped under his armpit .
the river was clear and smoothly fast in the early morning .
nobody asked you to stay either .
" i took a drink .
everyone was rich now and we had lost no one and the place was ruined .
he hates me anyway by now for differences in politics .
i know he’s not a beet worker .
then he cut the other line closest to him and in the dark made the loose ends of the reserve
tear down the notices , pulling the paper off in strips and washing and rubbing away the paper that stuck
“it’s a bore , ” he said out loud .
” “on our own two feet when the chips were down and for keeps , ” he remembered .
' we both drank and pop said , ' the hell with them .
i moved too , so he would know i was awake .
she screamed just as nick and the two indians followed his father and uncle george into the shanty .
brett did not say anything .
“listen , hogan .
von lettöw was a hell of a man .
as he had walked along the road , climbing , he had started many grasshoppers from the dust .
he was holding his glass and thinking of many years ago .
” “you walk ahead .
" we followed montoya up a flight and down the corridor .
“the razor , please , ” he said .
he knew zurito would pic for him .
" " he looks that way , " brett said .
if there were no women he would stare with enjoyment at a foreigner , un inglés , but lacking women
“look at the barbarity of madrid , ” said the tall waiter .
too heavy to lift and you could shoot through it and they would have to climb over it .
" got anything to drink ?
were as far beyond him as calculus is distant from a man who has only the knowledge of arithmetic ,
' we got one too , ' said p .
the road left the green valley at once , and we were up in the hills again .
but as the young gentleman said , “ja , ja , ” peduzzi decided to talk altogether in tyroler .
" we went on up the road past the houses of the town to the inn .
” “well , i don’t want any girl tonight and i’ll talk just as wet as i please unless it
" would a hundred help you any , harvey ?
but i’m fine .
his long , burned , oiled face looked at pinin .
you cannot kill me because i have your pistol .
, and in some ways , in the several months that they had known each other , he seemed to
the market place of a town called rouen .
' did you ever see a more ugly face ?
“say , signor tenente , is there something really the matter that you can’t sleep ?
brett leaned forward .
" where shall we go ?
" a man is never lost at sea and it is a long island .
they did not even remember that he was middleweight boxing champion .
i think he has the same pits on his heart and in his soul and maybe in his curiosity .
” six more assorted chinks came on board over the stern .
' ' was it not a great thing ?
” “i want to be useful and a good partner .
i ' m just telling you about things in a general way .
" " a man ought to be married .
he would eat , then , by himself and could read a book with his meals .
“it ain’t that .
am .
i think i got everything .
” retana watched him smoking .
any one could be upset by his first lion .
the bull ' s legs tightened , his eyes on the muleta .
" " in the winter-time when the boys go to the dance they come in the cars and wait outside
” “i’m taking it easy , ” he said and looked straight ahead .
time than should truly be allowed for its doing .
” “felipe ?
around that place there were two kinds ; the drunkards and the sportifs .
all american writing comes from that .
let ' s have another bottle of rioja alta .
" good-night , " said hogan .
' i don ' t want to kill another one unless he ' s big .
in america , and he had discovered writing .
” “you didn’t wait so very much .
' ' charles laughton , ' said pop , pulling on his pipe .
probably a lot of other people will say i shouldn’t too .
like going to the bathroom .
jack’s face was the worst thing i ever saw—the look on it !
manila envelopes and rang for a boy to take them to the gare st .
that you were really not of them but a spy in their country ; that you would leave it and
' ' mashed potatoes and a plain salad .
i am a fool to have stayed here this long and the fool who put me here will answer to
” “also i should not speak cynically or brutally .
“nada .
there weren’t any gulls nor terns nested at cat key nor bimini .
“hell , ” john said .
she dropped the blankets .
everything he did showed it .
you will have some yourself if you stay at the front long enough .
” he took a drink .
" sister cecilia wants to know how the game is going ?
“i saw a woodcock this morning , ” bill said .
marcial straightened up and dropped his cigarette , and , looking straight ahead , their heads back , their free
yet he was very pleasant and nice , and we all three went for a walk out to the gypsy
i am funny .
' ' i throw my trade out of that god-damn window into the grand canal .
i’m chewing .
little vaporetto and make bambinis .
” nick cleaned up the skillet and put the pack in at the head of the leanto .
' we listened for another shot but we did not hear one and i was sure karl had his kudu
' ' naturally .
jack didn ' t say anything .
' could you get me some from trieste ?
i can reach him with the gaff and eat him here in comfort .
' i turned on him as though to slug him in the mouth .
closer , closer , closer now closer and ever closer , to go on past all belief , longer ,
but the evans boy did not care about fishing .
“so he is gone .
" " tight !
i put my arms around her .
you ' re hunting it .
” “we’ll see , ” said paco .
the other , lying flat and handing us one of the bottles , asked in a hurt tone , “on
the cottage .
" it was the arab reminded me of it .
really knew , and with valpolicella , knew as absolutely as though he had just read his third wassermann that
elliot’s name was cornelia .
” “do you know how many days there are ?
book ii chapter _num_ i did not see brett again until she came back from san sebastian .
“this thing i’m on barely keeps me off the ground , ” the first picador said .
” “go ahead an’ remember , ” the nigger told him .
of a stick in blue jay corn plaster advertisements when we were children .
it had no relation with the poised , intently used smile of the courtesan or the politician .
forward and back , the body leaning out against the swing , the sticks accenting the curve like points of
we ' ve made two-thirds of the way now and if you are worried about having to work to break
anything i tell you , ” kidding like , and we beat it out and through all the crowd that
” we went back and jack got dressed .
and the brown beer sitting at the wood tables under the wistaria vine at aigle when we came in across
as he put on pressure the line tightened into sudden hardness and beyond the logs a huge trout went high
“take your goddam hand off my shoulder .
senlis is a good place and we can stay at the grand cerf and take a hike in the woods
“i don’t know , suzy .
while he watched the coffee on the fire , he drank the juice syrup of the apricots , carefully at
it bears a fruit you can ' t eat and it is purely kansan .
he came up the track toward the fire carefully .
she worked out from under him and sat up and straightened her skirt and coat and tried to do something
you couldn’t hear yourself talk for the singing and i ordered a gin and angostura and put it down against
" " he wanted to marry me , finally .
” “what about coffee ?
trail a bull until we could see him .
nick pressed his thigh hard against hers .
you become obsessed by sex .
can ' t you ?
” inside the store suzy had gone straight through past the glass showcases , the opened barrels , the boxes
they were glad to let her .
it has more nourishment than almost any fish , he thought .
call it .
nick felt nervous .
' ' do you think it is this bad for everyone ?
” wilson went off .
” “you don’t have to say that again .
' ' what did the doctor say ?
but he held it .
” “he knows it , ” david had said .
nick stood up , then kneeled down and kissed kate .
opposite us were rincón and baracóa .
then there was a big dispute among them all .
” “is she a little crazy ?
“only of shovelnose .
“i have to eat .
" no , you wouldn ' t have .
chuckling happily .
” “i don’t feel too good about it , ” jack said .
the air and ended in a sigh and a heavy , deep-chested grunt .
they had many a good cry together .
we’ll make a fête before you go .
” “were you ever tired of trout ?
you told me .
“what’s the matter with you ?
” “that’s right , ” said evans .
" don ' t you think so ?
no , that was in maths .
but the great joke of all , the thing m ' cola waved his hands across his face about ,
but now they were freshening as when the breeze rises .
on , without bark , gray to the touch ; slowly the feeling of disappointment left him .
" romero called .
“no , ” said margaret .
" you ' re terribly right .
" " he was a much better shot and his father was a great wing shot too .
“we can keep to the two sides of the road if it isn’t too scratchy .
i could not let him take the trouble .
' ' when did you get like that ?
” “why not ?
it was in that last _vogue_ you sent me .
behave yourself .
” “’i wish i was twelve now .
space of the corral , i saw the picadors .
“we only talk that way when we’re enthused .
the bull ' s head was down as he watched the muleta .
“not so bad .
he looked at the wall .
" absolutely , " said harris .
' ' sir , ' the colonel said gently .
new york .
we all got into the car again and i began to feel sorry for the poor , bloody , useless
a tackle store and finally bought a rod for bill up-stairs over a drygoods store .
” “december eighteenth , ” said the sexton .
and if i ever hit you i ' ll break your mucking jaw .
the huge horns on some harmless beast .
his mind .
' what are the beats ?
" a little cup , " said the waiter .
the motor car climbed up a slight rise and went on through the trees and then out into a grassy
my father primed the engine through a petcock , rocking the wheel twice to suck the gasoline into the cylinder
when your teeth close on the small slice of meat it is an almost unbelievable delight .
" it makes me nervous .
he swung the tiller across the shark ' s head where the jaws were caught in the heaviness of the
but it was not worth it .
be done , every one of which you sign .
he was not , either , because just then he saw , beyond the line of close-bunched brown trees ahead
he did not believe he had ever been hungrier .
" we walked along port royal until it became montparnasse , and then on past the lilas , lavigne '
" " i ' d rather you didn ' t .
i had discovered that was the best way to get rid of friends .
the cattle were up in the hills .
order him replaced .
if you can’t see the bill swing where it would be .
” “take it easy , ” said al .
he was incoherent and crushed .
the next morning sister cecilia came in .
” “how did you know it was them ?
give or take three .
americans twice as large as myself , healthy , with clean hearts , sleep at night , never been wounded
now the stream was shallow and wide .
the little man sat looking at manuel .
in the sand .
the american , two tables down , was looking at it with his journalistic eyes , wondering who painted it
" " we ' ll come back before we go away .
Ça , c ' est le meilleur .
' ' if you can get to our camp we have a mechanic .
now made a trail for all sharks as wide as a highway through the sea .
" " tired !
' i saw it in kansas city when i used to come in from fort riley to play polo at
” “do you suppose he’s got the con ?
” “i don’t care who they are , ” i said .
the arena .
farmyards .
two guns at a time .
we have better pictures in the house .
glances and by queries , there was black hair that seemed to have no connection with the human race .
a lifelong fan .
he ' s handsome .
garner said .
the old man was sweating now but from something else besides the sun .
i saw the escorial out of the window , gray and long and cold in the sun , and did
nick had one good trout .
" " i have , " the old man said getting up and taking the newspaper and folding it .
after a while pop and p .
“what’s the bright boy’s name down the counter ?
the wet iron of the bridge and the rain coming down into the river and the train with water dripping
' ' hell , no .
the chauffeur came up with a bucket full of salted ice .
” “here’s the lunch , ” said wilson .
it promised to be a fine clear day .
she did not wake .
“i can get in , ” he said .
“would you mind leaving us ?
” “you gut-shot him and you hit him somewhere forward , ” wilson said without enthusiasm .
“i really have no rank .
' ask him what the hell he ' s laughing about ?
" " no , i mean you got to fight it out .
finally , we got out of the crowd and made for the café .
the shooter , wearing his hip boots and an old combat jacket , with a patch on the left shoulder
' ' it ' s wonderful .
the old man knew he was going far out and he left the smell of the land behind and rowed
shakespeare .
" i must shove off .
” “the firestones are very old .
please no .
” “i didn’t know they raised many cattle in florida .
“i’ll take it in , ” helena offered .
just smell them .
” he put on his muffler , his coat , and his hat .
" " shut up .
i sat in one of the wicker chairs and leaned back comfortably .
of his belly .
it ' s an insult to all of us .
and would take the cow head into camp and see what the roman had located .
“you’ll get all cinders out here , ” my father said .
” “i know how to do it .
on those nights i tried to remember everything that had ever happened to me , starting with just before i
“lock the cabin .
they both went out on the screen porch and shut the kitchen door .
my flat was just across the street , a little way down the boulevard st .
east .
rope out in the sun with the sweat pouring off his face and him skipping rope out in the white
” “what made him crazy ?
what manuel was saying .
“captain , ” he said to me after a while , “could you make me a highball ?
" want to play some cribbage , jerry ?
" " well , " i said , " they ' re always wrong , ain ' t they ?
” with a disposition to wonder and adore in like manner , as bishop stanley says , can any branch
' they did not talk at all and the wind was a stern wind so that , with what speed
' ' what do you mean , as i wish ?
they bring it all from mariel now !
then took a course that would lead us down the hill , across the grown-over gully at the bottom ,
the shark closed fast astern and when he hit the fish the old man saw his mouth open and his
he spent all his money , though .
” as you ran down the last stretch to the steep drop , taking it straight , then running the
” “no , but i’ve seen him .
they can all count good though .
' ' who said that ?
' probably .
“i don’t want you to , ” mr .
” “i’ll take them to her .
“get that other , ” wilson said .
and i’ll do away with you .
“that’s trie new development , ” william campbell said .
but i don’t agree with him .
i ' m mrs .
well , they weren ' t having any of it .
" arriba !
' ' good night .
you remember , too .
to hold , and with his heart beating and his captured , hopeless eyes .
” “sounds like anybody , ” the girl said .
' ' he and i aren ' t dignified together .
he’s not going to stay there all day .
he saw the white naked line of his backbone and the dark mass of the head with the projecting bill
you ' re an expatriate .
' ' on the sile canal , ' the colonel told him .
came in through the scoop in the dash and the slanted glass of the ventilators .
” “oh , hell , ” i told him , “don’t talk so much .
i ' ve had him for ten years and he ' s never been right yet .
i knew that i was shooting well again and i wanted to make a shot to impress droopy .
the dog was ahead of him now and he stopped where david had left the two hunting spears by the
“excuse me , ” she said , “the padrone asked me to bring this for the signora .
“i want to have a kitty to sit on my lap and purr when i stroke her .
bill looked at his watch .
" though the whole plant , " says he , " was no larger than one of my fingers ,
" " don ' t talk nonsense .
pour , and i will tell you some of the rest of it .
w .
" nick , sitting between the two boys in the dark , felt hollow and happy inside himself to be
when the masai saw us they started running and we stopped , surrounded by them , just below the stockade
we went forward making as good time as we could and still move quietly .
it is better than working crossword puzzles .
i was all for pulling out and trying the new country toward handeni where none of us had ever been
s , heart and her dark hair , of an alive texture , hung down over her shoulders .
he came through the wet grass to the cottage and upstairs to his room , walking carefully not to creak
" you think so .
when he ' s got something supporting it his face doesn ' t look so bad .
the life of the mind .
' hello , my great beauty , ' the colonel said .
" it ' s lovely , " the girl said .
hemingway’s play the fifth column .
' m ' cola repeated and we shook hands again before we went on climbing .
perhaps i should not have been a fisherman , he thought .
' though you better get on your belly damn fast if you want to stay alive in plenty places .
gulf off cuba .
" take the gun and the bags in the house , nick , and bring me a paper , "
“there isn’t enough of this to do any good .
to her two just-grown children , who did not need her and were embarrassed at having her about , to
' meaning ' he ' s hit !
' ' must be nearly five hundred yards .
didn’t you order some white rock and ice ?
" let ' s have one more drink of that , " brett said .
they just didn ' t give me the feeling that they were so good .
can ' t do it more than twice in an evening .
“well , you had plenty of girls in your time .
at about the time that nick and his sister were entering the first of the slashings the warden who was
“that was good liquor .
he looked huge in the glasses .
” he showed them a length of iron pipe that he used for clubbing shark .
please may i take your hand ?
to hunt for one special animal is nonsense .
i know them , but i wish that he would get it open .
, that roger added from a small pitcher , was dripping down into the clear yellowish liquor turning it to
of the three matadors one was ill and trying to conceal it ; one had passed his short vogue as
“all they want is litri and rubito and la torre .
and what beat you , he thought .
self-mutilated with a razor .
the table in the dugout that was battalion headquarters .
it didn ' t show at first .
“tell him to make three gimlets .
“we have bananas .
inside the shack he leaned the mast against the wall .
i ' m frightfully fit .
" it ' s funny , " i said .
he did not like me nor dislike me .
i think he’s an anarchist .
he never thought jack could have stood it .
“a really big one .
a stream went through the centre of the town and fields of grapes touched the houses .
it didn’t show what an awful beating he was taking .
" i never liked children much , but i don ' t want to think i ' ll never have
if i could talk spick it would be different .
" he looks a lot like villalta .
after a little the trees grew closer and we left the idyllic country behind and now were picking our way
“we’ll get out as soon as we can , ” roger said .
” captain willie adams took a good look at the man who was speaking to him .
" i ' ve only got two shells , " nick said .
“we’ve been gambling , haven’t we ?
we were going just about the right speed and i headed her into the stream .
our tent .
i hung the lantern from it .
i’m not going in the tent tonight .
" what does fourteen to nothing mean ?
“you write the books yourself ?
the white-paper announcements of the unloading of the bulls and the big schedules of special trains were still up on
" we ' re going to have coffee with the others .
after the rain and the time in the north when the fall is over and it is wet and cold
” “oh , nickie , i wish you wouldn’t sell them .
give me the whole quarter .
" i ' ll fix it up if you want to do it .
' ' whatever you say , ' karl said .
the picador , now on his feet , swearing and flopping his arms .
” i thought a minute .
beyond the burned place we came toward the stream and stopped , sweating , in the shadow of some very
but it is the mind working , its ability to work , which makes the rhetoric .
both wore overcoats too tight for them .
alice was shaking all over and i looked and saw she was crying .
the patronne found one .
” “i know it , ” she said .
there was no stringiness in it and he knew that it would bring the highest price in the market .
“you’ve been in the hospital .
' he knew it was teasing but he did not even want to hear it said .
eddy went forward and lay down .
occasionally it is there , alone , unwrapped in pudding , and it is good .
" " yes , i ' ll tell him .
it is just that i am half a hundred years old and i know things .
" i cannot resign myself .
” the stretcher-bearers came in .
' it ' s gotten on his nerves a little .
' ' you ' d make an awfully funny verlalne , ' the girl told him .
" " day after to-morrow .
the sun was coming up over the hills .
afterwards in the chairs in front of the fire , sitting with the drinks , pop said , ' you
' below us droopy and his partner who was trailing with him had stopped .
don’t i santa claus ?
not he .
reserve .
he was not a bully nor was he wicked , but he liked to fight as men might like to
" the chauffeur came out , folding up the papers and putting them in the inside pocket of his coat
assume the responsibility .
” “and is it very expensive ?
barnes , " answered the count , " all i want out of wines is to enjoy them .
" for god ' s sake , " he said , " why did you say that about that girl
and a splash .
you could almost describe it as a brilliant letter .
with radio itself) he rode in every night out to the roadhouse on the canadian side where he followed the
the train left the station in marseilles and there was not only the switch-yards and the factory smoke but ,
the hell with you , he said to the mirror .
dark , as his belly went over .
” “il fait de la vendange .
manuel remembered the day .
he ' s going to send some this afternoon .
it was all very lush and over-green since he had seen it last and becoming historical had made no change
you ' ll never regret it .
below the barn there was fresh warm manure and the other older manure that was caked dry on top .
” “the good physician here .
" " hello , zizi , " brett said .
[he looks a little worried .
" " yes , i ' ve got to get these cables off .
" i don ' t even listen to it , " he said and shut the door .
he was too simple to wonder when he had attained humility .
there they were all very happy .
barman again .
” “the little bugger , ” nick said .
you come down here for a rest .
that year before the big rattlesnake was the year they saw the indian poling the dugout and the buck in
pyjamas , dressing-gown and mosquito boots .
his mind was on horses as well as baseball .
” asked the cook .
but there was a good bottle of really cold , dry , resiny tasting greek white wine and for dessert
he is twenty .
where he tightened facing up into the current .
' cow and calf , ' pop said softly .
i ' ll tell him .
walcott went in .
' ' it isn ' t much of a trade is it ?
at all , sitting and talking , while he posed with it .
i really have faith in him .
“now let’s drink to chesterton .
hunt or what ?
what ' s the matter with you ?
scar from the wound the surgeon had pushed his rubber-gloved fist through in cleaning , which had run from one
" bill ' s a yell of laughter , " mike said .
” he circled them once more to make them roar more loudly .
it was near enough , anyway .
that one ' s a good bull .
it was still there with him now .
hooded muzzle of the gun of a tank swings towards you .
living in the muddy , rainy town in the winter , the major of the battalion made love to luz
' beech and another wood that is cheaper that i do not recall , at this moment , the name
afterwards , he couldn ' t recognize people .
” “we were with an attack division .
they stood in the doorway and we got in , and i started the motor .
eee-eee !
“every night for two weeks .
but listen , jake .
" does he still play them ?
the man was steering in for woman key now .
tell me the rest when you come back .
" " oh , shove it along , michael , " brett said .
” “darling are you very , very brown ?
you going to run as a christian ?
" " did you see anybody ?
here , take him and put him in the sack with the hen .
“wait a minute , ” she said , got a pen .
we never had much of a chance to find out .
” “it does no good to discuss it .
” “not me , ” said baldy .
“you’re an awfully good girl .
until you stop that nonsense .
the rod above his head he led the trout over the net , then lifted .
that was a mile deep .
“i said i was a different man , james , ” he said .
it was easy tracking and we knew we were close .
after a storm and hear them pop when he stepped on them with the horny soles of his feet .
” “no , i want to go .
the count poured very carefully .
tell him , tom .
" didn ' t you know he was a nigger ?
there is nothing lovelier to eat than those fat iron-curtain ducks .
they stood together sadly on the porch .
” they all laughed .
the shark lay quietly for a little while on the surface and the old man watched him .
had also fought in spain as a battalion commander where the colonel had known him when he , himself ,
" limpia botas ?
with uplifted , white-muscled , tendon-marked naked forearms , and white bloating belly , as the black men fleshed away
the boat came in slowly , breaking ice all the way , and the man picked up the wooden decoys
” we sat at this table in the middle of the room and i watched him raise his glass .
“i’d better take the bags over to the other side of the station , ” the man said .
careful never to move across the sunny open space .
everything about him was old except his eyes and they were the same color as the sea and were cheerful
on the next circle the fish ' s back was out but he was a little too far from the
when he came home he wouldn ' t sleep in a bed .
" that is my certificate of membership , " he said .
then he walked to where he had left the pole with the line and the hook and baited the hook
” “where we ?
it smelled of hides and tan bark and the big piles of sawdust .
" hey , jack !
" " i miss the wife .
when it was in , he glanced at the second whistler and saw that was okay .
" asked the sexton .
" bill was down below watching the stream .
' ' good-bye , my colonel .
“i’ll be out there , ” retana said .
” “sleep here .
” “i’d like to meet that fellow .
we came over the mountains and out of spain and down the white roads and through the overfoliaged , wet
" the girl looked at the ground the table legs rested on .
" the south germans are a gentle , lovable people .
” “get out of here , ” i told him .
' i envy you to know them , ' he said .
the houses of burguete were along both sides of the road .
” “i don’t mind dying a bit , ” he said .
that ' s the place for it .
her chin lifting and her face hardening .
we waited and i began to wonder about johnson not showing up .
“i would not be rude .
talk about anything you like .
” she drank the neat whisky from the flask and shuddered a little when she swallowed .
' then you know when the cardinals would come to bat it was simply dreadful .
" i could not fail myself and die on a fish like this , " he said .
” macomber took the big gun and wilson said : “keep behind me and about five yards to the right
we sat and looked out .
it belonged to somebody that wouldn’t sell , i guess .
, i dreamed about it and it was a strange mixed-up dream and i dreamed it was the hand of
i know we’ve got those .
” “what does she do ?
" " but what were they like to be with ?
" you hear him , horace ?
but i did not know if i could do it .
“do you have that feeling of happiness about what’s going to happen ?
each time he gave the bartender a good tip .
" for this señor .
" " come on , " bill said .
' they take snuff , ' pop said .
” “and if i do it you’ll be happy and things will be like they were and you’ll love me
it was still hot , but the sun was on its way down and for a good way we would
" good-night , jake , " he said , and started back to the café .
” he looked at me .
“all you punks stink .
" " yes , " i said .
the warden ignored the hired girl and said , “what is it , evans ?
we will drive up , on the way to billings , to where they killed that fool george armstrong custer
what are they doing ?
' ' they were too far , i tell you .
" i don ' t like any of it at all .
like himself .
“besides a man is held to be innocent until the law has proved him guilty .
“i told the wife i’d take a room at the shelby tonight , ” he said .
in gear .
" montoya smiled at bill .
sealing wax and put it in the pocket of his shirt .
the end .
” “won’t we stay there a while ?
there had been no water going over the brushy dam when they had passed that morning .
“from san carlos , ” he said , and smiled .
" how long have you been stewed , billy ?
" we ' re going to have a regular meal .
” “ain’t she from there ?
a simple process , but a rite .
in a very old place .
to do now but hit him , and he couldn’t hit him .
think of the great dimaggio .
“what’s the matter , yes , all right .
the american lady put herself in charge of one of three men from cook’s who said : “just a moment
" i want you to shake hands with mr .
it came with a rush ; not as a rush of water nor of wind ; but of a sudden
i bet he had some nights .
when he should be with the woman .
he was really very fast .
you folks fixing to stay all night ?
back of him and to one side was a peon with a cape .
braddocks put in .
i never hear it any more but it does something to your ears just the same .
he said to tell you he ' d be back .
and every time i ever see it the same thing happens in my inner guts .
and across from camp was a dusty , dirty native village .
i think that boy’s beginning to get a grasp of reality .
outside now the marge business was no longer so tragic .
to hell with the bull !
he held her close against him , feeling her body against his , all the sweet body against his body
” “no , ” said the lieutenant .
retana ' s man tucked a baton inside the red cloth of a muleta , folded the cloth over it
couldn ' t get his clothes .
where was zurito ?
the coffee boiled as he watched .
“and i wash dishes .
" isn ' t it pretty to think so ?
" " is he going to fight ?
but we can ' t leave him unarmed .
” “a day’s voyage .
m ' cola looked blank .
he put one knee on the fish and cut strips of dark red meat longitudinally from the back of the
two big ones .
' they were all as big as that .
we waved from the car to mike .
time to be in it and to move slowly .
” “the one who wounded him was a card-player ?
” “what did he say ?
the hell he’s ever been a good fellow .
in a way it ' s an enjoyable feeling .
comic book readers .
there were labels on them from all the hotels where they had spent nights .
take off is putting it very cleanly and pleasantly .
" come on , you polak son-of-a-bitch , " jack says to walcott .
' ' you ' ve seen me .
when i heard him go downstairs i went down after him .
" you partook ?
' ' naturally , sir .
” “he’s got folks in oklahoma .
" " oh , don ' t go to hell , " i said .
the priest looked back at him .
he took out his knife , opened it and stuck it in the log .
but here we were , now , caught by time , by the season , and by the running out
” “good morning , ” she said .
so he decided to think of something else .
" " i don ' t say it ' s right .
” the cook opened the door from the kitchen when he heard nick’s voice .
of jaws wide to hit the fish where he had already been bitten .
it was a nothing that he knew too well .
have a drink .
' i like my work very much and i meet extraordinary and interesting characters , also many belgians .
' ' i do not care for lettöw , ' kandisky said .
georgie patton ' s armour to go through and held it open on both sides .
" trust schmidt .
” “christ , ” he said .
” “tell her it looks like her country , ” guy said .
many of the calfskin-covered haversacks , stick bombs , helmets , rifles , sometimes one butt-up , the bayonet stuck
” i got out of the car without a peso in my pocket and i didn’t know where i was
why don’t you go over and join the memsahib while i just get it over with ?
" " oh , i am .
” “we’re having fun now .
i know what your own dear grandfather , my own father , told us about the civil war and i
no difficulty about treatments .
than he was .
b ' wana !
" " you have ever been in love ?
it sound as though it were made up .
she is away for twenty minutes and now she is back , simply enamelled in that american female cruelty .
people do not want to do it any more because they will be out of fashion and the lice who
frazer went on thinking .
" " they can ' t insult mike , " bill said .
nick had paid eight dollars for it a long time ago .
they made a curve and crossed the tagliamento on a temporary bridge .
there were birch trees in the green of the swamp on the other side of the river .
nick held him in his right hand and he could just reach around him .
' you have boundary lines so that when the battalions cross their boundaries they will not then fight each other
" " shut up , " said al from the kitchen .
indictment , evidence , and condemnation without a word being spoken .
” in the ring they lifted you and carried you , running with you , to the operating room .
it in , and the man had paid for it and gone out .
" " won ' t be healthy long .
" " no matter how vulgar a hotel is , the bar is always nice .
he came all the way from new york to see the san fermines .
“imagine having them around the house all the time and going to sunday dinners at their house , and having
” “he’s gone to drink at my colleague’s , the löwen .
none of those new kids would know him and i wondered whether he had come to try to steal a
' i feel so wonderful about just being supposed to have killed him .
" give me the stuff .
" " that ' s good , " trudy said .
“it hasn’t any ether in it .
" i said nothing .
” “have a cigar ?
' boy or daughter or my one true love or whatever it is ; you know what it is ,
” “how are you going home ?
” nick knew it must be true .
' and when i put my hand up to my ear to listen the guide said something to m '
" " they lead such a quiet life .
he had announced this intention .
the stones felt good .
doubts as to whether these animals were really mortal .
“it was nothing .
i was just trying to give you the facts .
hapana !
" it is half a day and a night and now another day and you have not slept .
" if you ' re not tired , fish , " he said aloud , " you must be very
an old cockerel , newly promoted to the standing of the heroes’ favorite rooster .
but when i came out of mine i was selfish .
" everything tastes of licorice .
” “all i do is keep my shoulders back and my head straight up and walk .
" you ' d think they ' d like to say ' grüss gott .
when the sun was up and we were warmed after the misty cold of the morning i settled my rump
he wore a derby hat and a black overcoat buttoned across the chest .
there is nothing african or even continental about this view to the north .
then they left the red bridge on the right and passed under the first high-flying white bridge .
” everybody felt terribly .
it was plenty dark but i could tell good where we were .
“i’ll come .
a continent ages quickly once we come .
retana’s man handed him the sword over the edge of the barrera .
brett was happy .
” “i can’t stay , ” jack says .
" " and why does he do that ?
i’ll just have to go over and suck up to the headwaiter and give him some more money .
” “that’s not the unwritten law .
worthless enough and to spare .
" i got him that time , " zurito said .
it was a quiet evening on a week night in town and there wasn’t any excitement .
” a man dropped down the railroad embankment and came across the clearing to the fire .
the others stayed up .
" " he is almost blind .
wait till you hear it .
” “belasco .
, driving into the western sun , the bush thick to the edge of the sand , solid as a
mais il faut faire un ef ort , she said .
” he lay down on the built-in bunk in the cockpit , over the gas tank , and in a
, shall there be any reward within himself .
the others went down and took the bottles with them .
“that is as it should be .
" what are you buzzards talking about ?
” he’d put the leather helmet on now with the raised padded ridge and his face looked dark and i
' ' the hell with that four-seventy , ' i said .
nice stuffed dog ?
do i look like an idiot boy ?
i saw the two lights on the point go down , and one of them moving off around the point
" " won ' t it be splendid , " brett said .
" you did not do so badly for something worthless , " he said to his left hand .
i have it in paris .
if you’ll only keep me from getting killed i’ll do anything you say .
jack .
" i understand i was tight last night .
i had the first company .
that comes when you have bet yourself out of a bad hole and i was wondering how badly the bet
, and handed it over the barrera to manuel .
some were grazing and others stood , their heads up , watching .
but they were sailing together lashed side by side and the old man thought , let him bring me in
four days later and some did not get down , but we went up and we went back and we
into the wind .
the horses’ hooves in the sand and the small noise of the wheels .
" i saw him shift from his left to his right horn .
“how ?
or , he added , thinking of hurtgen now , you can take your scythe and stick it .
" walcott stepped off and grinned at jack .
of a boat , manuel noticed the points of the bull’s horns .
but he knew he could not refuse .
“you know everything , ” nick said .
“it toils not , neither does it spin .
she simply used the exact words or as exactly as she remembered them .
this part of it anyway .
" was painted on the banner .
then we were on a good smooth trail that graded back into these hills above which the sun had not
probably nothing .
elliot mr .
water as a speed-boat does .
them clean when they lay in it and made the earth soft when they were buried in it and sometimes
” “i didn’t drink any of it after you left , ” the local warden said doggedly .
a white hunter worked three months out of the year and drank for twelve and the government was ruining the
another came in .
carts were jammed solid on the bridge with camels bobbing along through them .
“i like to see that great brain work .
" " you do the sport ?
" " i said we could have everything .
' ' i ' m sorry , ' the colonel said .
the engravings were like this country now after the rain with the river and the mountains going up from it
reading , proceeded .
" " you ' ll be daunted after about three more pernods .
“call me ad .
two that fought , tinily , in the glasses , pushing head-on , fighting in front of a clump of
' ' you have them , ' the colonel said .
i could just reach it with the grains pole and i tried to break it with that but i couldn’t
” evans said .
he had put it when he went to the door .
in the erection of a _campanile_ , or even the old church at torcello .
no , ” he said .
we’ve always got trout .
” there was a half a pound of butter and she brought it wrapped in the oiled paper in the
then we would have that for all of our lives .
he tried it again and it was the same .
" " do you , now ?
“take your gun in one hand and your grains pole in the other and show them how deep it is
in this you drown in mucus , choking , and how you know the patient ' s dead is :
" " you sound as though you liked her pretty well .
never anything .
” “we are all brothers .
" hurray for wine !
' ' belmonte and pop .
him on the highway that led to trieste , the one he was familiar with , he put his map
' ' good , ' she said .
it ' s not crowded then .
' you are positive ?
let’s get out of here .
but it was not important .
" hello , popularity , " jack says to walcott .
” the man in command said .
” i went over to the crap game .
please believe me .
i saw a couple of smacks headed in toward havana and they were coming from the westward so i knew
he didn ' t like it any , though .
“i never touched your leg .
' it sounded as though there were when i said it .
” “but it is not only that vicente is my brother .
' ' so do i , except that i go duck shooting to-morrow and that to-night is to-night .
' oh , my dear .
the bull saw them and charged .
" " cadillac is where steve ketchel came from and where ad wolgast is from , " the shy man
it’s very good .
can you remember ?
as i can be .
” manolita started to laugh again and we got up to go .
suddenly , from the back seat , abdullah , very excited , told kamau to stop .
” “he’s a good car .
they weren ' t masterpieces , of course .
hollow inside he was so beautiful .
common visits to selborne , and bishop stanley has given us a valuable , although popular , _familiar history of
patches silly .
anyway there is going to be plenty of it from now on .
the wind is our friend , anyway , he thought .
going to be passchendaele with tree bursts .
” or “will you pass me that ?
the bad lions would roar with laughter and eat another hindu trader and their wives would drink his blood ,
" he ' s very young , " said one .
let’s go down and watch them drinking .
it never occurred to me that garrick had never seen a sable and that he knew no more about them
_ _num_ d soldier_--hell , don ' t i know it ?
” “he stays with the wine .
the cross roads , ” may never be determined .
another dry martini .
' ' i ' m quite lovely .
but then he thought about it and it made him feel sick .
i ' ll go in the bar while you park upstairs .
” “what would you do nights ?
down and down , sliding along the curved side of her .
” “nothing , ” said wilson .
he had come up from deep down in the water as the dark cloud of blood had settled and dispersed
“cochons , ” i said .
' poor old poppa .
have you got any liquor ?
the town was crowded .
" william campbell shut his eyes .
down and i could see the whole length of him shine bright silver as he turned broadside and headed off
“you wouldn’t draw , ” retana said .
i should have chopped the bill off to fight them with , he thought .
” “here ?
crawling where the hair was thin .
either side any more , only a shortness of time and our disgust that we did not know the country
one of the beds in cohn ' s room .
the bathroom was the only disappointing part of the room .
water , caught the sun , and then , as he went back into the stream under the surface ,
look at him .
' that doesn ' t make any difference .
george stood a little farther down the slope , knocking the snow from his wind jacket with big slaps .
the chairs were carved but the wooden seats were worn and quite comfortable .
go into him , into his side .
so that we would get some use out of him .
but it was visible .
outside the villages there were fields with vines .
" " clearly , " said the smallest one , " and costs more too .
the only thing he ' s afraid of is another one of the same kind .
the glass was broken in the windshield .
the sea had risen considerably .
in the morning at seven .
" how does it go , hand ?
his ears were back and his only movement was a slight twitching up and down of his long , black-tufted
” “it ain’t nothing , ” the man said .
then we read again and all went to sleep .
i told my s- _num_ that we should call them the valhalla express .
" it ' s good to see you , jake , " michael said .
but the lovers bored her .
_num_ st soldier—he didn’t want to come down off the cross .
" i ' ll just steer south and west , " he said .
in the italian hospital we were going to form a society .
i should be a better man with less wild boar blood in the small time which remains .
we never sell the beer before it ' s good .
you go out and dig some more worms and i ' ll be right down .
the path crossed a stream on a foot-log .
” madame fontan came up the stairs with the beer bottles in her hands , “il est catholique , ”
already i had had one of the diseases and had experienced the necessity of washing a three-inch bit of my
” “what about a gin and tonic ?
" peroxide said proudly .
there were americans came here and they put whiskey in the beer .
a flock of dark ibises , looking , with their dipped bills , like great curlews , flew over from
" " i beg your pardon ?
he knew they were young men by their voices and he did not look back , but listened carefully for
“—the aged manolo rated no applause for a vulgar series of lances with the cape and we entered the third
" we must go and say good-by to the fontans , " i said .
' saying to shoot , that it was a bull .
she must have had five million dollars worth in her .
took her slowly right up to the edge of the mangroves .
but perhaps i hate the russians the most .
” “was is a good word , ” he said .
” “he comes here at six o’clock , don’t he ?
she was in too deep water and i didn’t get anything off of her .
which is sheridan more like ; mantova or verona or vicenza ?
they tried .
' ' ever heard of pound ?
it was uncomfortable and his legs were spraddled and his body was very sore .
brown hair and brown eyes .
it came from over-confidence in being able to do a thing and then omitting one of the steps in how
” “you’re coming on all right .
large trees .
tolstoy was a small man .
' ' homer wrote _ulysses_ , ' pop said .
' then you ' ll have to take him .
the big wop were standing and the big wop was wiping his face and shaking his head .
“that’s a fine town , ” the negro said .
over his head was a bull’s head , stuffed by a madrid taxidermist ; on the walls were framed photographs
" " i will have everything in order , " the boy said .
that’s one thing , david had thought .
to get out of the country for a while .
fräulein !
the wine is better but it would have been too hard to cool .
and a poke with the goad and get going again .
of cape and then was left with nothing , fixed by the pass , dominated by the cape .
“i’ll say you were .
would not open and they would sail as cleanly as possible .
" he shook his head .
” i should think it would be even more unpleasant to do it , wilson thought , wife or no
you can’t .
my nerves are bad now .
if you were a horse i would buy you if i had to borrow the money at twenty per cent
of the kiss but desperation .
he thought they were a special glamourous race and when he found they weren’t it wrecked him just as much
” she didn’t drink so much , now , since she had him .
' " " here , " i said .
front to sit with the wanderobo-masai and help direct kamau and i sat in the back with m ' cola
but i won’t have to send it .
” “he couldn’t help it .
' then he looked at her and smiled and regretted taking her beyond her depth , as you might take
it was lighter in the tent .
” the doctor said .
the two men in the fishing chairs were talking .
he would be standing with his father on one shore of the lake , his own eyes were very good
" manuel stepped out on the hard sand as the bull banged into the fence .
tomb when you are dead .
" it ' s all rot to talk about it .
the young indian smiled reminiscently .
i sat and listened for a while .
wine-seller—good-night , gentlemen .
" " many times i do not follow myself with pleasure .
i sat down .
“don’t make me feel bad , ” i told him .
m ' cola put his finger in the bullet hole in the centre of the shoulder and shook his head
he was damned snotty when i was getting mike up-stairs .
he doesn ' t get in till nine .
now you have to shave and look at that face while you do it .
" ain ' t he a bright boy , max ?
once we came on a place where the bull had rested and watched his back track , there was a
” “this is where it’s good , ” the innkeeper said .
but it seemed to fit cohn .
there were many variations of that joke .
, bush-bordered prairies that dried into a typical desert country with occasional patches of bush where there was water ,
stretcher bearers would be along any time now .
" " didn ' t you really know ?
his hand and then put them into a chamois pouch and filled the magazine with .
but he untied the harpoon rope from the bitt , passed it through the fish ' s gills and out
the curve of her forearm could break your heart , and he thought , christ they are dead and i
done with the number .
the absinthe certainly brought you out early tonight .
“juma’s your friend , you know .
” after another short drink the young gentleman handed the bottle over .
“and here’s the stones where i camped before .
the proprietor got up on a high stool beside the dancing-floor and began to play the accordion .
' i love you and my trade can gently leave .
, people in all the seats and on the roofs , if that were the way it were still done
but i took the empty pint bottle and the quart bottle with the whiskey in it out to the kitchen
' ' i don ' t think he would want one , really .
you read a while or just be quiet .
jack wasn’t ever what you would call a sprinter .
” “he cannot marry .
only pushes it a little , skilfully , to be more handsome ?
and they ' re not worth more than a quarter of a million .
whatever you would call it .
, go sliding down along her and then off and down to the quicksand and go in .
' ' yes , ' said the old man and roman nodded .
“it’s o .
“maybe , ” bill agreed .
sat down backwards in the dust .
' ' please tell me .
" " will i ever live with them ?
and big sliding , into the long sack that hung from his shoulders in the water .
you know what she said : ' yes .
“she’s gone !
" " i must bathe , " said brett .
from the roof i looked down through the trees to the lake .
” “so what ?
“i’m just the guy that loves you .
frazer was a little taken aback at this .
" i beg your pardon if i intrude , " he said in english , " but it has just
the two of them went out the door and no one looked back at anyone .
women made such swell friends .
“i’m not afraid .
“on ne mange pas bien .
in the evening he practised on his clarinet , strolled down town , read and went to bed .
' the colonel asked him , referring to his pitted compatriot , sitting chawing at his food , while the
just their heads out of water walking ashore , and the shine of the beach and the brush behind .
“no , but i can get some .
go away now !
" i had been there when he came in .
you ' re wrong there .
“you’re pretty near as old as i am , ” zurito said .
it was neither all over nor was it beginning .
i think about that kike ted lewis and i get sore .
the people hated us because we were officers , and from a wine-shop some one would call out , "
a taxi to the gare st .
“you fighting here ?
” “i haven’t got it figured yet .
to the salt .
” “it wasn’t italians , ” said baldy .
as he knelt , another pebble fell on the tiled floor , bounced and rolled into the corner toward the
before he went back to the front they went into the duomo and prayed .
” “then he’ll die , ” she said .
it was the bar milano , a small , tough bar where you could get food and where they danced
to water at the spring or to get a drink .
' we won ' t have to know them this side of hell , ' the colonel assured her .
" " no , " i said , " nothing but rain .
he wrote for me to come home—i went , and found he is taking a course of injections and i
i have to know about that .
we left m ' cola at the crossroads to hold up our lorries when they came , put the car
were an opened bottle .
” “yes , ” i told him .
in the picture in the paper he looks like he ' d know .
the pencil , start one of the stories there on the table while the girl slept ?
" he ' s just gone down , " john said .
you have to be that , always , and then be the smartest of the smart .
the hell with you , he said to himself .
the golden horse’s head outside the boucherie chevaline where the carcasses hung yellow gold and red in the open window
i looked at them under the gas-light in the dining-room .
maurice de saxe .
but which really said , with the adjectives removed , that i had been given the medals because i was
” “yes , ” said wilson .
the hired girl was building a fire in the stove and the warden said to her , “what about some
" " it ' s a dreadful hat .
” suddenly screamed the lieutenant .
going to get it .
why not ?
only in the papers .
” “i really love you .
i ' m easy to get along with .
“how rare it is .
” “yes , ” he said .
this knowledge that you’re going mad for me .
" " no money , jake .
so they took the stones of all their houses in barges , like that one we just saw , and
' ' you could always just look in the glass .
brett and i danced .
i won thirty-eight dollars from him at cards .
” “i can hit her again .
“no , you were good , ” nick said .
he was truly handsome as a man should be , from the inside out , so that his smile starts
who in hell thought it up ?
that doesn’t do any good .
" " she couldn ' t take her eyes off them , " mike said .
he was completely done-in , his face was badly scratched , covered with mud and bleeding , and he was
” “it’s not made up .
' ' in the neck , ' i lied .
“how was that ?
he put a newspaper over his face .
monsieur will be a member of the académie française .
” “poor poor roger .
it was just that she was so nice .
the count was buying champagne .
" " no , " said mr .
but i do now .
” she reached for the pistol in the holster under his arm and he slapped her face .
we climbed up and found a place on the wall looking down into the corral .
” “you don’t sound awfully jolly .
then sooner or later you always got one .
he sat up , swung his legs carefully down ; they stiffened any time they were out straight for long
“what’s all the damn guns for ?
“where do they come in ?
know the names of , walled thick with forest , past a hindu ' s trading store and many huts
' ' i ' ll tell you true , ' he said .
open fire place were burned and afterwards their barrels , with the lead melted in the magazines , and the
“you don’t know who i am .
“mr .
" you can hear them chew .
' ' i dare say , ' the colonel said and put on his trench coat and looked at his
and there was no one in the room now but paco and the middle-aged waiter .
but it was excited shooting , all of it , and i was not proud of it .
he looked back at the gritti and saw the windows of his room ; still open .
” “all ?
it ' s like miles and kilometers .
an infantryman knows a strange trade , he thought ; perhaps the strangest .
always frightened .
they answered ' jambo ' , and then the old man and the wanderobo talked with them .
the little man sat looking at him across the desk .
most men die like animals , not men .
it locked on opening and , twirling it , he dug a neat hole in the moist earth .
” “naturally , sir .
' ' without his wife .
' billing and cooing , ' pop said .
“we have to get to pisa , or if possible , firenze , tonight .
a few children were picking up rocket-sticks in the square .
“should we match a duro ?
find another track .
roussel that i was nominated for membership .
bald head , and a pink , angry face .
the paris edition of the _new york herald tribune_ .
" i don ' t want to sit here on a night like this .
wide street ran that ended at the front .
“i hadn’t thought about it , ” krebs said .
d ' you know many more literary anecdotes ?
he was nervously wobbly .
rogello , basilio , esteban , fel and i are alive .
” “there is nothing to forgive .
' that ' s enough .
things were getting forward in the town .
” “bad politics , ” frankie said .
" " we like it , " said the count .
there was a fellow there that had helped pay brett and mike out of cannes , once .
he had been eight days in the kudu camp in the hills , hunting hard , with no one with
to the woman who came out , and finally come back .
don’t be a hick .
“they were enjoying the morning just like we were .
i have to stay ready for them if they do .
this was a better sky than italy .
you are no longer of any real use to the army of the united states .
“would you come and bring a bottle of something ?
“how did we ever get talking about baseball ?
" " now ?
“if i give them a quarter they keep it all but if i give them only fifteen cents they let
, put in lumps of ice from the thermos jug and poured soda into them .
he certainly did used to make the fellows he fought hate boxing .
belmonte was the first .
swept up high , then back , huge and dark , in two great curves nearly touching the middle of
we have dreadful scenes , and he cries and begs me to be reasonable , but he says he just
then cohn wanted to take brett away .
nick got out a bottle of tomato catchup and cut four slices of bread .
i guess i imagine that too .
joe garner and his family , passed nine drunken indians along the road .
” said macomber .
downstairs hogan was sitting at the desk in the office reading the papers .
they had three machine guns there .
his face , his eyes down , never giving any recognition to applause and saying , “thanks , ” in
" you must have been in a motor-car , " he said .
but you had a half an hour more before they closed .
i rode back to the farm in the cart .
“but this boy shot himself so badly that the bone was all smashed and there surged up an infection and
' they were in front of the palace now and there it was ; the palace .
" exactly , " bill said .
there he goes !
” “look at them , ” he said .
then in a jerky-flighted , sharp-beaked little flock we saw the tick birds rise and fly away .
i gave him twenty francs and he touched his cap and said : " good night , sir , "
she’s damn cruel but they’re all cruel .
manuel walked toward him , watching his feet .
” “we’ll take a look , ” the sergeant said .
' ' i don ' t know , ' the colonel said .
” “what makes you think we’re going to the store ?
when he did he did not hear the trap and killed the bird with his second barrel far out so
' ' except when i think of other people .
" oh , yes , i speak german and french and the dialects .
like iron , who always wore cattlemen’s boots under his trousers , drank too much every evening and gazed amorously
he having no idea that he would be arrested .
' ' you must go .
“i don’t trust that damn interpreter .
, into the deep saucer of _sauce vinaigrette_ .
you’ve seen the guys that get married .
” he asked me , opening the box .
i ought have gotten kek .
please be a good boy and we just lie together and love each other .
but his gaze at the foot of the bed relaxed slowly .
" well , i ' m going to bed myself , " i said .
" " rather .
fuentes came down on his toes , arms straight out , whole body arching forward , and drove the shafts
" " il fait de la vendange .
walcott had just weighed and was standing with a lot of people around him .
the duty and on our return , while we exchanged impressions , we all agreed that it was indeed fortunate
there was no light as yet in the east across the grand canal , but his eyes could see how
” “so far .
' ' now tell me .
” she went out to put the birds away where it was cooler .
“good-bye , ” i said .
” bugs said .
" pa was down into the road and back up again before i seen a thing .
“i know they ain’t coming .
they had fine commanders , too .
and the fish had taken .
he knows he is too angry to shoot and he feels he has been tricked .
taxicab through lincoln park .
steve could lick a hundred like that black bastard .
of her ; the biggest boat i ever saw in my life laying there and i went along the whole
' your pitted compatriot eats in bed at his hotel , my colleague tells me , ' he confided to
” when my old man grinned , nobody could help but grin too .
" i sat up , leaned over , found my shoes beside the bed and put them on .
number of views seen for a few minutes from hot , empty rooms that are waiting for some one else
_ _num_ st soldier_--aw , hell , you don ' t know anything about it .
he washed them carefully in the cold water , getting the dirt out from the nails .
“no , sir , ” i said .
" " thank christ i can ' t , " i said .
he would not let it steep in the pot at all .
he went inside when he saw me and came downstairs disgusted .
it wasn’t worth it .
near cooke city , montana ; kansas city ; chicago ; toronto , and havana , cuba .
“what kind of cooperation do you boys want ?
” at one time she would have prayed , but she had lost that and now she needed something .
to get the knife out of my pocket to cut him loose .
what was that about all these women ?
i want to see him , he thought , and to touch and to feel him .
” “don’t stall me .
' ' the hell with them .
it was a bright , cold day , the ground covered with a sleet that had frozen so that it
they all were big .
i ought to sleep o .
that white bank of sand .
“no , ” said the friend .
' we may have a few belgians .
does it hurt much ?
“should we have another bottle ?
i’m honest .
isn’t that what you got me in on this trip for ?
” he asked , for confirmation .
he brought her astern and i let them do the holding in .
they had the scent and were excited and in the stupidity of their great hunger they were losing and finding
he remembered long ago when williamson , the bombing of icer , had been hit by a stick bomb some
" we shook hands .
we got down and the driver handed down our bags and the rod-case .
they are going to come in .
how do you look in civilian clothes ?
" franz , come over here .
but now i need the money .
those tusks will keep .
“it got all right .
was a fool to have bothered with me .
" " i said you ' d live a long time .
“i don’t mind if you call them change-of-lifers , ” she told him one night in bed .
“would you write in my book ?
” “i’d rather you didn’t .
" so i did .
" it ' s not a fête .
' ' now we ' ll draw for choice of beats .
" " there is a word for such people when they do like that , in french , " fontan
” “lie down a little while , nicolo .
do as i tell you .
then something came into his head .
” bill asked .
the forests on the flats that stretched out to the edge of the open plain .
and cold .
the head bulked enormous and the horn swept up and back in a fine curve .
go on , point it at me .
my brother .
he came toward wilson , his tallness all seeming a naked reproach , and wilson looked at him and said
the waiters were sweeping out the café and mopping off the tables .
“now you’ve seen one .
i do not think i could endure that or the loss of the eye and of both eyes and continue
thing that flies .
come on , jake .
as we climbed higher the horizon kept changing .
" " how does he feel ?
“take them one at a time , ” my father said .
you said she cut him down .
“how many corridas you had this year ?
he turned .
but , as a soldier , these other men who policed the battle had hunted him down , and the
“finished , ” he said , speaking with that omission of syntax stupid people employ when talking to drunken people
the bottle was in the washroom .
i have n ' t got ten to sleep yet .
i honest to god don ' t know .
growing in them , rising a solid bank beside the stream .
odgar and kate were down there .
' it ' s a kudu .
the dew .
but i don’t like the title much .
this town was nothing like paris nor was it like orleans either .
" steinfelt said to change the subject .
it was a triumph for hopkins .
put your fingers there .
but we could be careful couldn’t we ?
i went out to meet him .
chapter xxxiv sleep softly , my true love , and when you wake , this will be over and i
i ' ll wake you up for the medicine .
his head swinging , watching it all .
, even when it is only a buffalo , you feel a little quiet inside .
" " there isn ' t anything i can do about it , " ole andreson said .
for his right hand for fishing .
he was putting himself in my place , i guess .
the flower of the party .
a while the girl said , “it will be lovely tonight but do you know what i am now ?
jackson , that ' s a real engine she ' s got .
a .
it ' s notre dame .
i must figure out some way to do it .
' ' you asked me , ' the colonel said .
, ” john said .
you dropped and lay flat ; making a mound to shield your head ; working your chin into the dirt
it in the cup .
“i’m sorry for them now , ” his sister said .
' ' was it much of a place , sir ?
“where are you from , marie ?
“would you go and find hogan and tell him we want to see him in about half an hour ?
of her and the feeling was warmer and softer .
" " do that .
wait to hear it bounce .
his sisters envied , and he had a ready and unpuzzled smile .
” “absolutely , ” i said .
i don’t understand it at all but i believe you .
well , there would be no more quarrelling .
' ' then give me one-eighth of a kilo of a sausage that is highly fortifying , but is not
let it quiet down again .
while he stared the birth-marked auctioneer rose and folding his napkin went out , leaving over half the wine in
” “only feebly , ” said johnson .
he did not want to get into the intrigue and the politics .
" " it left at nine this morning .
" " i never carry a gun .
i didn’t sleep all day did i ?
mine does not matter .
" " i ' d like to try them once more .
" " don ' t you write him ?
fall for them but don’t let them ruin you .
we had tried working closer but they kept sniping at the camera and you could not work .
a thousand years makes economics silly and a work of art endures for ever , but it is very difficult
maybe you were thinking about her and you thought i was talking .
" did you hear from cohn ?
“sure it’s true , ” he said .
looking at him curiously .
" " you follow them pretty close , hogan ?
but i can feel that way an awfully big part of the time .
" " why don ' t you try and go to sleep .
” he started up the bank .
what’s the use of slanging me ?
very badly too that i had given the waiter the number of the counterespionage bureau in seguridad headquarters .
it isn ' t heavy , he thought , it is lighter than anything there is .
“it’s a subject i know too much about to want to think about it any more .
take the case of young stribling .
i just asked you how long you ' ve been stewed , billy .
" they must have taken a quarter of him and of the best meat , " he said aloud .
jack was sitting at the breakfast table .
it had been forwarded from paris : could you come hotel montana madrid am rather in trouble brett .
' ' there are very big elephants near here , ' garrick said .
we must go back , cross the meadow far enough down so we were out of sight , get into
four fingers and his thumb into the bull .
” “we are germans , ” i said proudly , “old south germans .
to bring this about with macomber , but regardless of how it had happened it had most certainly happened .
mike was on his feet proposing a toast .
’ “‘must know , ’ the priest said .
already i can ' t see him .
" it ' s a wonder retana wouldn ' t give us enough light to see the horses by ,
' ' not for too damn long , ' the colonel said .
" " he ' s probably worked for weeks fixing them to go off , spelling out ' hail to
” “it will have to last for a while .
" i was a little drunk .
it boils down , or distils , to the fact you stay in until you are hit badly or killed
“another brandy , ” he said , pointing to his glass .
she said she loved it .
” “can’t we stay with you ?
that did not want to leave , on the rhino carcass when they had gone there the next morning and
the ash barely slanted toward them as it fell and his father nodded at juma and bent down to follow
john was hanging onto the ropes .
' get the wax out of your ears and hear what i say the first time .
” “i’m afraid of them .
in black smocks .
“he’s stale as poorhouse cake , ” hogan said .
who the hell are you to criticize career girls ?
he needed a shave .
' ' nothing , ' the colonel said .
except that he would rather be in better company .
did he have a fourth dimension ?
after the dinner we were out in the town .
the big ducks with the green heads .
" i guess i was pretty stewed last night , " he started .
" she sat down on a chair beside me .
m ' cola and kamau had to break his handholds and pull him off to re-load , him shouting ,
" i could feel her crying as i held her close .
pinin looked at the floor .
he ain ' t going to last like you and me , jerry .
" " are you hungry ?
three !
with cluster , nor two silver stars , nor the other junk , nor the medals of her own country
five teller mines , armed , on the far side of the road .
" " that sister ?
” “he thinks so .
i try to recall it but i cannot .
he went upstairs into the loft and nick heard him walking about overhead .
well he would never know , now .
' ' i see .
i found the two wine-bottles in the pack , and carried them up the road to where the water of
" you ' ll like that wine , " fontan said .
" " fine .
in the morning he was on the far slope of the mountain again .
” “in france that wouldn’t make any difference .
“that’s how i started out .
“tell her we are very ill , and have no money .
washing , and forced to look in the mirror to check any traces of lipstick , he regarded his face
' daughter , ' he added .
all the people riding the trains looking for work .
" asked hubert .
' ' let ' s not talk about it .
humour , was the hyena , the classic hyena , that hit too far back while running , would circle
“let it go into his mouth , ” i said .
you don’t wash the pickled onions do you before you put them in the cocktail ?
” “you’ll have a doctor tonight when the boat comes out .
jack started training out at danny hogan’s health farm over in jersey .
” “i see , ” said mr .
attractive one .
“keep your head down , ” i told him .
prairie and the pines , into the hills of the lake country , the road striped black over the long
' ' tell me , please .
' ' i can make him ask me .
the back of the collar and the upper part of the shoulders were gray with dust .
it had started the night before when he had wakened and heard the lion roaring somewhere up along the river
" yeah , " said george .
no one had ever said it was .
through that valley and out to the lake , ' pop said .
“ever see one like that ?
he knew that was a lie .
it might as well have been a dream , he thought .
“as an aid to memory , ” he said .
" i ' m sorry .
” working fast now , the sweat running down his face , not stopping to watch the boat coming slowly
” “i’ll have what you need .
” to marie from her friend helena wrote above the florid name in the slightly suspect script .
from the still existent portions of which we picked many of these detached bits which illustrated only too well the
he was standing almost broadside , his great head up and turned toward them .
' but we never saw a kudu bull out of that camp and we left two days later to go
" " more to me than to him .
but i know i ' m sick of you .
were arranged in a show-case .
said no .
m ' cola was watching me with his head down .
” “that’s the afternoon paper ?
" why the hell can ' t he stick around ?
almost covered the stream .
“all right , ” said captain willie .
“but i ain’t never been shot .
" everybody knows the american ambassador .
they were starting to dance around the bull .
range of hills off to our right .
he must have got that whole blow .
' he is a very good painter , but he has false teeth in front because he was a little
of fish congregated because of the swirl the current made against the steep walls of the floor of the ocean
bill and i were going to sit in the barreras , and i gave the extra ticket to a waiter
" come on , jake , " he said , " have a drink .
a wonderful day .
" " how did you go bankrupt ?
” “it’s the first drink we’ve had all day .
only i didn’t think i was conceited .
" you should have brought many things , he thought .
was .
when i awoke in the morning i expected i would be a saint , but i wasn ' t .
what a way to raid a house !
like some super-rhino .
i could feel the old man watching me from up under the roof as i drank the beer .
“good night , ” said hogan .
” “a north or south american ?
" get away .
" he ' s drunk every night .
that was when they shot the first fellow right in front of the window .
beyond the fence was the woods .
just hold me tight and try to love me true .
our seats .
but it was the snow all right and he sent them on into it when he evolved exchange of populations
" no , " said zurito .
look what he ' s done for nacional .
" much better than that of big timber .
" " i ' ll get the cast net and go for sardines .
“you’re franctireurs .
over my neck , but i had seen what fountained up .
manuel held the cape close in front of him , a fold in each hand , and shouted at the
” “they brought some beer .
all the shutters of the hospital were nailed shut .
" you better go see ole andreson .
i was his tennis friend .
” “how did you come to it straight through the woods with no trail and no blazes ?
he had remembered it like a parrot .
of oak and steel and swung on ball bearings , sam cardinella was left sitting there strapped tight , the
naturally , in such a short trip , we had no opportunity to see how things were with the country
then holding his head down and his left arm around his neck he whipped his fist and the blade back
montoya did not come near us .
" jack says .
things were bad .
he had found that out but he would never write that , now , either .
shoot .
' ' good , ' she said , and kissed him hard so he could feel the sweet salt of
" with his prayers said , and feeling much better , but suffering exactly as much , and perhaps a
the fat woman who ran the inn came out from the kitchen and shook hands with us .
she handed him the kansas city star and he shucked off its brown wrapper and opened it to the sporting
i should not blame them , since they were defeated .
you didn ' t think i ' d try to wind your clock , did you ?
brett was a good drunk .
” “what do you mean the nigger ?
stayed by the side of the boat .
" " did i not , " said brett .
i am going to take a shower now and shave , something you will never have to do , and
buy them new hats or shoot them , he said .
” “now , about the loading , ” i said .
its tables running out to the edge of the pavement .
' i come thursday .
' ' you could give it to the local museum .
ain’t you a jew ?
' and this game is even worse .
' ' walk a little ahead so i can see .
the referee started counting .
the cat-tails grew that you soaked in kerosene to make jack-lights with for spearing fish at night .
across the grey ice .
, and how the sword pushed in as easy as into a mound of stiff butter with the palm of
bill had gone up-stairs as we came in , and i found him washing and changing in his room .
it was thickened and tight against the side of his head .
” “how were they lost , roger ?
and tell the girl , now silently , and that will not hurt her , ever , because she is
" " you know morgan and steinfelt , " john said .
i must not jerk it ever , he thought .
' ' the hell with anything american except me .
the other was huge , dark , brown-faced , good-looking , with black hair like an indian and enormous hands
there were big palms and green benches in the public garden .
here !
a fifth boat had already turned off into a side canal .
then come back and we ' ll finish the beer .
" i had that feeling of going through something that has all happened before .
they are down now to gamble at the lido .
no sun came through as they walked and nick knew there would be no sun through the high top branches
" " was there ?
' ' lay off me .
" good night , " the other said .
love .
" bill put the trout in the bag and started for the river , swinging the open bag .
you remember the gare de lyon and how they would have sort of push tables with papers and magazines and
garner sat close together on the front seat .
” it felt very cold in the big high-ceilinged , pleasant , dark-wood panelled bar room and helena , sitting
what the veterinaries won ' t pass in the daytime .
i picked up a brass nosecap flattened and plaster marked at the end and handed it to the girl called
that seemed a very long time ago .
' ' all right .
the trout threshed heavily , half out of water in the leaves and branches .
i s s h o r t s t o ry w a s l eft u n c o
to see him ?
“i will , i told her .
“yes , ” said roger .
" " and of course there isn ' t anything i can do .
well at least you do not kill elephants .
“and we could have all this , ” she said .
proper names when they came to sell them or to trade them for baits , were down again .
by woman key where he would not see anybody and where the boat was to come out to meet them
“suzy , i’d like to see you , ” mr .
everybody that was ever in france they want to come and drink wine .
never about the front .
” “it’s better than baseball , ” bill said .
the three of them drank .
do you remember when he shot the kongoni ?
brett ' s hat was off .
he had been crying .
” he looked at the wall .
' we ' ll be going in a minute , ' the colonel said .
travel while you ' re young .
he was in his tent now , writing a letter .
what sort of trees will we see on this journey ?
we flushed a covey of quail under a high clay bank with overhanging brush and i killed two as they
it was all new now looking out from the platform and the woods had that new look of woods you
he always smiled as though bull-fighting were a very special secret between the two of us ; a rather shocking
out of the fight will be being bored .
they only found one of the bullets .
back under arrest .
we must have piombo .
there were so many people running ahead of the bulls that the mass thickened and slowed up going through the
” the man next to the window winked at me .
" " he better not come then , " trudy said .
" " you know i ' d have lived with him if i hadn ' t seen it was bad
” “and they don’t work the trees for turpentine with chain gangs either , ” roger said .
' ' do you think we should give a homage to the honourable pacciardi ?
“so would i .
very interesting , the colonel thought .
if it wasn’t for fear every bootblack in spain would be a bullfighter .
“how do you feel ?
you haven’t been wicked .
once old henry tackles the pope you’ll see all three of them crumble .
m ' cola grinned and said something .
i asked you so many times to do it ' .
" can ' t we speak decently ?
in principle , i would have brought you a bottle of brandy .
' that one ' s a bull , ' pop said , looking through the glasses .
” “don’t wash in the spring .
' ' yes please .
" " i ' m very curious to see them , " robert said .
think how i would make it , and thinking of making money reminded me of the count , and i
” “i don’t know , john , ” i said .
' ' let ' em work , ' the colonel said .
it’s a good fast drop with a christy at the bottom on account of a fence .
his straw hat and goes without saying good-bye .
" good-night , " the woman said .
we liked them all right then .
” “and sad too , ” the manager said .
nickie .
” “and what will happen ?
” “you said you loved it .
” “he seems like a good guy , ” al said .
holding the muleta , with the sword in his left hand widening it in front of him , he called
i’ll tell you he looked pretty good to me in there today .
" " you ' re quite right , " said harris .
' it ' s not good enough for the little memsahib , ' pop repeated .
” this pleased him enormously .
' and when is next saturday ?
it was early fall and it was on a high upland with sandy roads and trails and the trees were
what the hell has that got to do with it .
hernandez motioned them to stand one at each side .
i hate to have to thump him and it’s the only thing to do when he gets started .
you read the paper and i’ll get it .
cohn was talking to her .
” “i love you , ” he lied .
" he has a little place too , " indicating the small , dark one .
louis in nineteen ought four .
him down , or cutting down across the hill through the timber , and m ' cola and garrick were
“listen , ” red said and handed the bottle to me .
all you get in this life is a point of view .
he woke as she came in , and they talked together .
my father threw it at a bat one evening .
but , momentarily , she was not with them .
he had on a white polo shirt , the kind he ' d worn at princeton .
" you must have had a very good summer .
” “of course you’ll be a saint , ” mr .
your compatriot is over there in hearing distance .
“you hurt him yourself .
you ' re better off alone on a show like this .
behind the cedars they lay flat against the springy moss with their faces down and heard the soft noise of
can we drive together to rome to get the clothes ?
ordinarily i should have handed it over .
" it ' s too early .
” they stepped out the door .
the blood sank into the dry , loose earth .
i saw one of the three men start for him and i saw this man’s face .
“i don’t care .
" " something the patronne ' s daughter said .
he was traveling toward the mountain and slowly moving into the steady night breeze .
we had worked hard , and i thought well .
it was gone just a little way around the corner in that well-lighted part of his mind that was there
' where did all this happen ?
' jackson , ' he said .
i don’t smoke , sir .
i’m full of poetry now .
we had fried trout afterward and some sort of a stew and a big bowl full of wild strawberries .
' that was the agreement .
” “you treat a man no better than a dog , ” the nigger said .
all my life the early sun has hurt my eyes , he thought .
the crowd thought that was wonderful .
a month .
by the time they ' d gone five rounds he hated jack ' s guts .
” running with head down enrique came toward him and paco swung the apron just ahead of the knife blade
” “good-night , nick , ” joe garner called .
you won’t talk to me like that again , will you ?
“it’s just been freshly butchered .
the world .
boy to help you haul it , and the two of you took it out over the road on skis
not taken any notice of what happened at the table .
there was smoke from many tall chimneys--coming into marseilles , and the train slowed down and followed one track through
” i showed him on the map .
il n ' a jamais fait de mal à personne .
” we said good-by to the man at the desk at the hotel , and to larry and our other
thaw practically invented the unwritten law .
all his great length and width and all his power and his beauty .
brett saw us coming and waved .
point and whisper ' damu ' , and we would go on again .
i ' m as fond of the bastard myself .
what the hell don ' t i think about ?
“they’d tear him to pieces , ” nick said , pleased with the picture .
he heard a shot beyond the hill .
he lay in the stern and steered and watched for the glow to come in the sky .
" well , " says jack , " you better go back to town , soldier .
" and the kid ' s , " i said .
i wouldn’t have you do it if you didn’t want to .
” “what do you get a head ?
so he hooked a patch of yellow gulf weed with the gaff as they passed and shook it so that
he couldn ' t have held on if he wanted to .
not at all .
down and get the stuff .
“it’s as good as the water in the spring where we were when we first saw them , ” his
their minds .
the sky was clouding over to the east and one after another the stars he knew were gone .
either you paid by learning about them , or by experience , or by taking chances , or by money
, with dignity , in the shelter of the wall opposite .
let him get sick .
” he had only fought twice in spain , they couldn’t stand him there , they saw through him quick
i had been kicked in the head early in the game .
" " do you suppose he ' s got the con ?
" they all looked dangerous to me .
if you love a country , the colonel thought , you might as well admit it .
, and the train was much nearer paris .
was in the conversation that you heard .
“after another little drink .
there was someone to see pop .
just as good as at home when we were kids .
she said she had looked in the room and that mike was asleep .
” “for my own business .
“go on and get on with whatever you were doing .
" " more than that when i come in , kid , " walcott says .
” “you do not believe in education ?
only the feeling of shortness of time again .
' now i must go for a time .
by the hills .
' and what about robert ?
any of these sentiments to the girl , who would not like them anyway , and was soundly sleepy now
i saw he was about ready to cry because he was so pleased everything was all right , so i
the boat moved steadily and when the first edge of the sun rose it was on the old man '
, and i left him .
make that trip down to the studio .
the skin .
pays cash .
and be unkind to people .
” “i’m glad you’re not , ” she said .
they ' ve got good hors d ' oeuvres .
came into the bed very fast and long and cool and wonderful feeling .
they did not crisp tight nor hold on the wheel .
i come to you--and only because i need not see you , can i confide in you even .
her hair was tied once close to her head and it floated all out in the water .
' ' well , if he painted any really good pictures of that country i ' d sure as hell
_ _num_ st soldier_--try some of the red .
" " fine , " i said .
me , i like foreigners .
the grey dim sky , slanting towards the decoys .
“alles , ” the peasant repeated to the girl .
” “it was stupid to be here at all .
he put some dirt over them and rolled the log back .
and put them back in the pan .
” “why did you say ‘hell no’ ?
” “you don’t have to destroy me .
and his face was white and his hands were white and thin .
“i prefer to have only one rod out .
" i don ' t want to go up yet .
is and you can never have it all and yet what there is , now , you can have ,
then i come back and got married .
' ' there isn ' t a contour here as far as you can see .
” “oh , no , sir , it is not permitted to drink in the café with the clients .
' but i don ' t want to hurt you .
" " no , " she said .
” she came and sat by him on the bed and they both heard the rain hard against the pane
you got no ship now for a few days but we’re flying tomorrow and this is important as well as
k .
" my heart ' s broken , " he thought .
” i went up to him and found him in exactly the position i had left him , white-faced ,
the count was funny .
" " congratulations , " i said .
” “and you have no family ?
“ski-heil !
here is the glass of decanted vino .
” “pull one out .
the glass and hammered until the wrench came off and i saw it in the glass , clear and sharp
” “i’m shot , ” the nigger said .
' are we in the secret chamber ?
they only opened one bag and took the passports in and looked at them .
“a cat ?
" che ti dice la patria ?
' no !
never be daunted .
the dark water of the true gulf is the greatest healer that there is .
' this isn ' t classified .
” i reached up and took the cup , the other wine still brassy in my mouth .
packard smelled like her kitchen and her kitchen always smelled good .
he jerked his head at the other goats below and when i waved at him he bounded down .
' ' no , i didn ' t .
she opened the door of the room .
” “i agree with you , ” said johnson .
every move she makes , the colonel thought , is a triumph of the gallantry of the ageing machine .
where the salt was and stand there , heavy-necked , grey , and handsome , the horns spiralled against the
' ' that would be lovely .
“i am a potential ace of the people’s army .
" nothing , " he said aloud .
” “say , signor tenente , what did you get in this war for , anyway ?
when i come back you can tell me about the baseball .
he washed his hands and dried them on the log .
' but old hem might as well have a look at it to-night .
the very biggest ones would lie up close to the bank .
“no , i’m not .
i wanted to start him again .
packard and her trout dinners .
" to-morrow night .
" i knew you were in a motor-car from the way the dust was .
bed in the dark .
he read the paper laboriously , forming the words with his lips as he read .
you can see them .
then he sat and sipped this very slowly , letting it stay under his tongue before he brought it slowly
" you ' re coming to the dance , aren ' t you ?
take the case of betsy ross .
montoya was glad to see us , and shook hands and gave us good rooms looking out on the square
" montoya smiled his embarrassed smile .
you know he is dead ?
off his tunic and shirt and we sifted the wounds with sulfa and claude put a field dressing on him
with the tone of command , ' evviva d ' annunzio ' , thus absolving all those who had not
and breathed deeply .
cuts and shifted his weight so that he could put his left hand into the sea on the other side
the place was not making a nickel except at the bar .
room .
” “do you think you should ?
there’s nothing to defend here .
“keep it clean , ” he said .
” “i love you very much .
and , of course , nobody ever bought any , and then he would come back and show the under
” “we should have gone before .
' ' all i know is that i cannot read him .
there was farming country and timber each way up the road .
and we’ve got the twelfth again in that attack last week by pingarron .
the village in single file .
“thank you very much , ” i said .
” “not now , ” the sergeant said .
' the bar-tender asked .
strange .
they started off and walked up past the cottage and out the back gate into the woods .
i wonder who the benny meyers of the ground forces were ?
the attack was just starting .
the meadow was wet with dew and nick wanted to catch grasshoppers for bait before the sun dried the grass
" don ' t look like that , " she said .
” “tell her i take a cold bath every morning , ” guy said .
smith but liz was afraid .
he was strong and heavy in nick’s hands and he had a pleasant smell and nick saw how dark his
' ' we will serve dinner as late as you wish to eat , my colonel .
" " because you leave the line , " said the doctor .
or peas in them , how the thickets and the cut-over land lay , where the cabins and houses were
" i feel altogether changed , " brett said .
" he ' s headed north , " the old man said .
i will bring stuff from the drug-store for your hands .
“oh , ” he said , “i told you all that once .
he could have made camp hours before if he had wanted to .
there was the bull .
the water was smooth and dark ; on the left , the lower edge of the meadow ; on the
” “all right , ” jack said .
" we got into the cab , and the cabman put the bags up on the seat beside him and
" but when mr .
it ' s me .
my conscience ?
” “you’re much braver in an attack than i am .
' we don ' t want her to charge .
i’ve loved africa .
i’d try not to .
as though she were just resting .
manuel noted the fresh blood shining down the black shoulder and dripping down the bull ' s leg .
" i put my head in the door .
there was no hardship ; but there was no luxury and he had thought that he could get back into
in montoya ' s room were their photographs .
that’s a long way , brother .
he just pulled his weight and that ' s all .
he spat tobacco juice on the log .
he put the apple in the pocket of his mackinaw coat .
there was only one other person in the room and he was awake too .
around noon i ' ll get up .
” “you do it , ” he said .
” he was getting on the man’s nerves now and the man was becoming tired of hearing him talk .
side of the house and into the street .
then there was an old lady , most extraordinary case .
” “i’ll think about it .
' with us , if a girl is really beautiful , she comes from texas and maybe , with luck
it could not go farther , the snow drifted solidly across the track .
” “how you feel ?
they were looking in the shop windows and the girl stopped in front of the lighted window of a jewellery
he looked out of the window .
f .
“i am simply a man who tells the truth .
that was still up .
for shoes he used sandals cut from old motor-car tyres .
' ' go to hell , ' the colonel said .
this drink had done exactly what it should do .
" " see , my poor lieutenant ?
where the show started on sunday .
" " isn ' t anywhere else .
” the crowd were yelling so you couldn’t hear anything .
' ' this one best .
the trail toward the bottom of the canyon where the trees were heavy and tall and the floor of the
he knocked on the halfopened door .
" " but they haven ' t taken it away .
“you stop laughing , joe , ” mrs .
" " let ' s go to biarritz and have a drink .
" he was more than any husband could ever be , " peroxide said .
' the wind made it very tangled , ' she said .
well , i killed the engine and climbed up forward to have a look around .
' can i stay at the gritti ?
to him and had seen his wonderful tusks .
let us not pry into the holy mysteries of the hen-coop with simian fingers .
whatever he was there for , he was a fool to come to chicote’s now .
did not know , for , then , no one really knew , thought it had been shot out at
” he put his hand in his pocket and reached the money out toward me .
i’d make you dinner but you ought to eat out tonight .
photographs of bull-fighters who had been without aficion montoya kept in a drawer of his desk .
' ' it was a shame that it should freeze .
“how about some of that courtesy ?
" " inside the last house .
' the surgeon asked him .
of soldiers , the giants , with the men who danced in them standing beside their resting frames , and
cold , wind-swept square that was hard and old under their feet .
only tourists and lovers take gondolas , he thought .
' highly improbable , isn ' t it ?
she was rather splendid , you know .
" " there was nothing ever like them .
" it beats legislation .
” “i’ll see you at the club tonight , ” he said to me very pleasantly .
you can hold any damn thing .
the red shaft of the banderillos tossed as he jumped .
" i am still an old man .
“you can tell them , ” bill said .
“that’s true , ” madame fontan said .
" is it good with water ?
the sunlight came in through the window and shone on a map on the pine-board wall of the hut .
' i waved and we started , the headlights showing the way to the road .
not my fault .
down on his knees , his big head tossing , and seeing the other two still galloping he shot at
the tribal marks and the tattooed places seemed natural and handsome adornments and i regretted not having any of my
' good evening , my colonel .
i walked on behind a man who was pushing a roller that printed the name cinzano on the sidewalk in
they crossed the bridge and were on the italian side of the river and he saw the old sunken road
' hapana , ' m ' cola said .
et mon fils il est marié avec une américaine , et tout le temps il a mangé les _beans_ en
i will stay in venice and go to mass with mother and my aunt and my great-aunt and visit my
and he never got me the papers he had promised me and today i heard i was going to be
snow falling in the light from the station platform .
that is all i’ve ever wanted .
' ' bar-tender , ' the colonel said .
the street was torn up and men were working on the car-tracks by the light of acetylene flares .
” “fine , ” i said .
” “they are all very much the same , sir .
trees are changed and wet and unfriendly .
now it is pleasant to hunt something that you want very much over a long period of time , being
“do you think that is the only use i have for morphine ?
' ' we were not born in the old days , ' the colonel said .
up the road , in his shack , the old man was sleeping again .
" i went to sleep , too .
she was looking after me .
” stop it , he said to himself .
' they beat the hell out of me to remember them .
they were cold .
the matador who was a coward had the older sister of paco in his room with him and was trying
“did you ?
" " continue , slowly , and wait for luck to change .
square and the dancers .
" no one ever has any confidence in you again .
“i’m awfully glad i never drank it before .
” “can’t i just be an un-idiot brother ?
" " drink your wine , " said brett .
” we were standing up now and she was staring indignantly at where the flit king was lying .
" i was just kidding him , " he said .
” “that’s the truth , ” max said .
' ' i thought you had made up your mind .
two of them looked like brothers and the other one , pancho , was a little taller but the same
—john , patrick , and gregory hemingway _num_ publisher’s preface there has long been a need for a complete and
" he ' s out in the barn with a couple of his customers , " i said .
i can ' t figure it , the shooter thought to himself .
' i ' d be glad to do it for a month .
father was getting into the upper berth .
" " you don ' t think things we ' ve had and done should make any difference in understanding
we’ll let him stiffen up a bit and then you and i’ll go in and have a look for him
' he turned to the boatman and said , ' that was thirty-five hundred , wasn ' t it ?
the country was barren and rocks stuck up through the clay .
i looked back as we went down the hill and saw the two figures , the tall thick one and
“he’ll kill him , ” said hogan .
” “right .
once when they were out shooting together nick shot a red squirrel out of a hemlock tree .
” “i do , ” he said .
that was the way salvador got killed .
' said the roman and grabbed me by the thumb .
s run made , knowing the town he would reach for the night , nick noticed which corn fields had
then he looked at his great beauty , with her strange , dark , grown-up child ' s face that
“i’ll see you tomorrow night , ” manuel said .
i ' d like to be buried way out at the edge of the grounds , but in sight of
and the lack of politics , women , drink , money and ambition , ' i said profoundly .
” we drove down the road in the motor-car and turned up a side road about a mile away .
they hurt just a little now , and that was her only worry .
turner had been a little strange .
“harry , ” he said , “you’ve got to give me one because i can feel them coming on .
the drunkards killed their poverty that way ; the sportifs took it out in exercise .
it was dark and he was a long way off from anywhere .
on it as the leaning tower of pisa .
don ' t you read ?
mother and every one , and now he doesn ' t want to do it .
“sure , ” roger said .
been cut by a stone and needed vulcanizing , --and , without the car , i walked into the town
whip folded up in his hand came out and then one after another the horses , with the jocks up
" americans make the best husbands , " the american lady said to my wife .
“everywhere .
they could see from his back how angry he was .
in the dark car the machine gunners , their guns poised , followed the sweep of the beam with the
" " sure , " said harvey .
“there’s going to be a moon tonight , ” said nick .
” i was thinking three weeks was a long time to let him go but if he was good for
but he sure can trail around after anybody .
the husband was standing , talking to the brother and gesturing and pointing out that he had seen the sable
to-day we are giving the snapshots , the bar-room confidences , the unwanted comradely drinks and the tedious woes of
secondary road ?
" zurito looked at his face .
karl came out , quiet , friendly , gentle , and understandingly delicate .
” “i’ll get all right .
it had to break .
of very good short stories by an irish writer .
it was now ten o ' clock in the morning .
of an african desert , naked and alone , considering his days as numbered and nothing appearing to remain for
we got to the thorn-bush fence , finally , after a nightmare march through the brush and saw the fire
" al ' s voice came from the kitchen .
“how is the bull ?
i must be getting very stupid .
to be a painter , and one had intended to be a soldier , and after we were finished with
” “harry , what are you saying ?
and then she had said , “no .
" retana asked .
” the grouse did not move .
i unlocked the cabin door , opened it , and said : “come on out .
' oh , lord , may he hit it out of the lot !
' ' let ' s look at the people and discuss them .
“i got them from the queen of the whores , ” she said .
blew the side of his head off .
' ' it ' s been awful , ' she said .
there was no doubt about the man the waiter had pointed out .
nick laid him on the log in the shade and broke the neck of the other fish the same way
i had the cash box then and i said let me attend to it , paco .
' ' what about the memsahib ?
" the wine was icy cold and tasted faintly rusty .
” “my savior .
i wish we always talked italian .
“got a watch ?
i was on my feet and hit him as he ran and he was down .
island .
nick kissed hard against her back .
i told him but he knows what it’s all about .
” “you say that once more i go crazy .
as we went forward we heard a deep , moaning sort of groan .
but here there had been a recent heavy rain and we had to be very careful about the low parts
" " like hell , naturally .
always went down to help him carry either the coiled lines or the gaff and harpoon and the sail that
" " hey , al , bright boy says he wouldn ' t say what he thinks it ' s
but i’d rather not .
" " it is a historic tune , " the mexican said .
up on the top of the mountain we saw the lights of the fort .
" so they played cribbage for about half an hour and jack won a dollar and a half off him
the men who had carried the tusks were heroes , already slightly drunk heroes and to be drunker , his
he had sold vitality , in one form or another , all his life and when your affections are not
i ought to live here .
that certain injuries or imperfections are a subject of merriment while remaining quite serious for the person possessing them .
” “give kiss .
" listen , bright boy , " he said from the kitchen to george .
i don ' t give a damn about these rhino outside of the fun of hunting them .
only an occasional small starry splatter on the rocky ground .
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--it takes some of them pretty bad .
a grenade and let the lever snap loose and held the grenade smoking grey and then lobbed it underhand up
there was only the heavy sharp blue head and the big eyes and the clicking , thrusting all-swallowing jaws .
” “what about mrs .
seine or net made of common mosquito netting .
the peasant in the high boots took the spade from the sexton and went on filling in the grave—spreading the
" " you can shut your face .
they must each have hated themselves for not having sent him back when there was time .
" no , " i said , " that ' s all i want .
she had only gotten on just in time .
we do not have war horses now like old traveller , or marbot ' s lysette who fought , personally
you could dictate that , but you could not dictate the place contrescarpe where the flower sellers dyed their flowers
" the proprietor brought two bottles and we drank them while we read the letters .
nothing will make me do it .
that old willie , he thought .
there comes your girl .
in the straw as he stopped , his head up , the great hump of muscle on his neck swollen
” “i don’t want to hear it .
but i am with a friend .
“nicolo .
you couldn’t get the women to give up their dead babies .
“he thinks you have lost your ambition , that you haven’t got a definite aim in life .
cohn wanted to pick him up and carry him to the bed .
' ' ah , yes .
maria did not think of this .
what can i think of now ?
come again .
i can’t talk to you if you’re not here .
the bull had humped himself up from his knees and stood waiting , his head hung low .
the table was in the middle of the room a little on your right as you go in .
“i’m going to sleep tonight .
” “i heard it .
he stood by the bed in the dark .
, listening when kandisky came back and talked .
that’s what my old man would say when he’d kid george burns .
you may give expensive sausage to a dog before a man who works for his living and knows what a
” “that’s eland he’s offering you , ” wilson said .
" everybody ' s got to go .
do i look like a boy ?
now things were done .
but he could see the old positions .
the morning after the fight i had a letter from robert cohn , written from hendaye .
” william campbell shut his eyes .
it was all back of him .
moved his drink over to the table with the two houseworn prostitutes .
“what can i write on it ?
i am not good for many more turns .
" sure , " said hogan .
fate in puerto rico or cuba without the castro revolution , but by the startling growth of the population of
” it did not go away but moved a little closer .
“just put it down against what i owe you .
hit , i mean .
' he asked lovingly .
wouldn’t give them up .
" we walked over to the bar .
in the shanty nearest the road there was a light in the window .
i did not denounce for pleasure .
he handed me his shotgun and looked at the fire .
the young man looked annoyedly and suspiciously at the steam and rusty water ; the engine was grinding , with
americans always say it to you before they go away .
" he stood up .
we were in the harbor and they were all on the pier and at midnight they started screaming .
” “i seen her a couple of times , ” the negro went on .
the bull charged and romero waited for the charge , the muleta held low , sighting along the blade ,
with his shirt ripped open you could see the flit king had no undershirt and the soles of his shoes
and just then it occurred to him that he was going to die .
it was built to provide a head of water for driving logs .
what i had to do was work .
droop wants to go on .
” william campbell pulled up the right sleeve of his pyjama jacket under the sheet , then shoved the right
they can bury them any time as far as i ' m concerned and it would be much better for
” but that afternoon there were telegrams to send , the car to be gone over—a tire had been cut
he watched us go down the aisle .
' we went on into another bed of reeds that were high over our heads , putting each foot down
facing the bull , his shirt ripped out from under his sleeve , the white blowing in the wind ,
the hills were worse than the woods .
' not good enough to take the little memsahib in there , ' pop said .
' garrick walked off , his plumes waving .
” “but you don’t know that he knows ?
” “was it rough ?
” the champagne tasted like sweet pink cider .
' tell him to take us for an hour where the going is easiest .
now he was facing the bull .
' wonder what became of the bull ?
so he had two small , manageable bulls without much horns , and when he felt the greatness again coming
come on .
' ' not quite all , ' the colonel disagreed .
the muscles would flutter under my hands all the time i was rubbing them .
' asked the priest .
did i know him ?
i ' d like to spread a bed roll here and prove it .
the bottle .
finally , to the two priests .
“i don’t know , ” manuel said , “retana didn’t say .
he was standing up and looking at them .
” i said to hogan .
" i ' ll come around for you about a quarter to seven and we ' ll go and eat
, and the wind fanning the fire , to the little plane .
" " you want to ?
did i do all right ?
you love me and you know it and we know things nobody else knows .
spagnolini made it but it ' s not quite correct .
“i’m afraid the other car is crowded with all that bit .
' ' no , ' i told her .
required it to take clients out into the country to show them a piece of farm property .
now that i had seen a bull i knew they all were cows including the first one i had shot
" sore , " i said .
to a chautauqua or a self-betterment course .
“tell her they’re playing them off their feet , ” mr .
” “we shouldn’t start and drive this afternoon ?
“what does that mean , evans ?
the light wind that came down from the mountain .
now who cared ?
that was a frontal attack .
mine too .
he found nick sitting with his back against a tree , reading .
” “i wouldn’t know that , cap .
way they had come and then at a far distant stony island of hills in the dry country and seemed
in the platoon they used to share anyone ' s gonococci brought from schio and carried in a match-box .
he fixed it up for stable space with charles drake and cut out coming in to paris , and started
georgette cheered up a little under the food .
their rope-soled shoes tapped and spatted on the pavement .
' ' i don ' t know what you mean and please don ' t make fun when i tell
that was what i wanted to be and that was what i thought i had to do to be one
baldy jackson .
“pretty sheet .
she ' s gone off with the bull-fighter chap .
just ahead of macomber .
” “what was the party ?
oh very gently here very gently please carefully please please very carefully thank you carefully oh in the lovely dark
“son of a bitch , ” the little man said .
great friend .
” “i don’t want to do anything bad , ” nick had said .
we’ve got good infantry tomorrow .
” “i drank the same as you .
he straightened up .
i guess the cards we draw are those we get .
he was standing , straight and handsome and altogether by himself , alone in the room with the hangers-on as
all three were leaning forward on the concrete railing in front of them .
was in command .
it raked back and as the fish swam just below the surface the old man could see his huge bulk
there is no use to lie about these things or pretend you do not enjoy winning ; but this boy
if we see him we’ll both shoot .
the trees and it did not seem old and like the illustrations but instead it seemed like a place to
" i just lay there .
' ' can he shoot ?
” “let’s not talk about it .
i’d planned to leave after dark , run out , just out of the glare , and coast along to
then they started down a steep path that went in long slants down the side of the canyon .
" " i ' m going to marry him , " brett said .
' droopy will get the tracks , ' pop said .
' then let us have another martini , ' the girl said .
they were warming up .
if you can shoot up the shells before they will swell , m ' cola delighted with the spill .
" " bring any of the papers of the time that i was gone , " the old man said
astern the boatman shoved them ahead into the broken passage .
" we were through the town and out on the smooth road beyond , with the stubble of grain-fields on
' going to have one ?
in the dirt , they had dug quite a little at the last ; stick bombs , helmets , rifles
snakes and specimens were exposed and had turned white—if you thought back that far , you remembered a great many
” the waiter came over and leaned toward the table .
“i cannot laugh yet .
and held it there , submerged , for more than a minute watching the blood trail away and the steady
i ' ve not had much fun since the war .
" oh , darling , " brett said , " i ' m so miserable .
clothing .
' ' i should sleep well .
m ' cola did not take him seriously and handed him to one of the masai .
" " mike was pretty excited about his girl friend , " i said in the taxi .
driver , macomber saw three huge , black animals looking almost cylindrical in their long heaviness , like big black
and so far we haven’t had time to make new ones .
we had been there all morning in the place the middle-aged frenchman had come walking away from .
death , the fear of death , the bravery , the cowardice , the insanity and failure of an unsuccessful
" i don ' t want to see you , " zurito said .
' ' my idea of a tough town is memphis .
" " what ' s the matter with you ?
" " tell him he is a beautiful boy , " the lady said .
' ' i hope you get a sixty-incher , kid , ' karl said to me .
even though it meant no more bumming in the woods , ’cause then we’d ride to enghien or tremblay or
she came from lens .
“i showed the place .
" he turned to the critic .
” “what do you get now ?
“you are a womans .
' ' please .
feathers .
tipped back .
kufa !
there were many people at the eleven o ' clock mass .
the river .
he did not know how his wife felt except that she was through with him .
of course nearly any rhino would look huge when he was chasing him .
once was enough .
his right along the edge of the night breeze , feeling it on his cheek , edging with it ,
the german girls are not beautiful .
there were four of them and they were in a hurry too but they were very tired .
found it again where the other blood spoor turned off .
" what do you want me to do about it ?
we cut for where we saw the bull when i shot and there were the tracks with blood breast high
and come home .
the rod , and then let him down into the net .
” “continue , slowly , and wait for luck to change .
" the fish hit the wire several times more and each time he shook his head the old man gave
that ' s one good thing about being an infantryman .
started to make a speech .
he would go to sleep while he waited .
in a little while they all began to come in carrying meat and the hides and then i was stretched
” “i had a wonderful sleep .
” inside the room the matador sat on the bed .
it is quite strange and the top organization dislikes those who have fought .
" that ' s the sort of thing that can ' t be spoken of .
the road went along the summit of the col and then dropped down , and the driver had to honk
“it’s business , ” said jack .
i mistrust all frank and simple people , especially when their stories hold together , and i always had a
naturally it would have made plenty more talk when they saw his name on the crew list .
” “well , i won’t tell you .
' that ' s swell .
it showed a pretty , dark girl standing by a rowboat on the shore of a lake .
” “daughter ?
” jack asked the fellows who were weighing .
” i asked him conversationally .
he swung them over his shoulder in their thong and leather cup harness and , with his best spear that
we were splitting it even between us and neither of us liked our share .
" no , why should i be ?
" " i ' ll get another knife and have the spring ground .
some people thought that it was ivy .
the driver helped us down with the bags .
in it are permanent and of value because that stream , will flow , as it has flowed , after
john came out in a car from town .
patch of trees .
" the two of them went out the door .
nor any jokes about them nor old squaws take that away .
now am i hokay , only with the ringing in the head .
” i looked at the two fellows that were with john .
some of the pros smiled as though at a secret when he put his gun to his shoulder and looked
" the policeman says that we are not in chicago but in hailey , montana .
” “not at all , ” i said .
' ' why do you hate cavalry ?
the boat to pieces .
” “if you hired a car and ran it off a cliff , don’t you think you’d have to pay
" " every man has friends .
get through the crowd to our table .
writer .
“i know i mustn’t kill him , ” he said .
” “i don’t want any girl .
it ' s been simply hell .
' ' so-so .
“how is the tide now ?
“come on up to the smoker , ” he said and i followed him through the car and into the
the girl .
trouble .
" " it ' s too far to go and fish and come back the same day , comfortably .
” “Ça va , ” said the other porter .
" " i can ' t blame them .
from where we stood , up to the very head of the valley , and there formed part of the
last for me , head .
formerly , with the shamba , we had the _querschnitt_ .
it doesn ' t make any difference with a woman .
' that he heard him snort .
especially all the things you’ve waited so long for , like absinthe .
” “you can have them if you like , ” he said .
thank god he is travelling and not going down .
“but it’s better than to run around at night with the other boys and steal things .
“we must .
and when she had walked down barehanded .
it was exciting .
in harry ' s bar .
always slept with a loaded service revolver .
to go down and up two hands-and-knee climbing ravines and then out into the moonlight and the long , too-steep
" you go up to bed , " i said , " you ' re sick .
withes , and always i expected the miracle of a bull kudu coming majestic and beautiful through the open scrub
thing touches those boils is a lovely breeze .
” the american lady admired my wife’s travelling-coat , and it turned out that the american lady had bought her
the bastard spooked at fifty yards .
" je veux aller à la chasse moi-même , " andré said in his high , little boy ' s
“what’s the matter , manolo ?
' giorgio , ' he said to the barman , who had a face as white as a leper ,
it takes men to bring them back and gasoline and men to bury them .
he’s got no right to bring in the little lad .
" " i ' ll come back if you want me .
fire .
but the way they are now you’ve got to have a vocation for them .
the old man says the other two are good .
” “that’s a splendid name .
you see packard if things get bad .
' ' that ' s the way it should be .
, a sail moving along .
“put the beer on the table , ” madame fontan said .
" she brought out a book for me to sign , and i gave her a couple of coppers .
the rains with no need to travel , the discomforts that you paid to make it real , the names
i tried to get up and felt i did not have any legs .
' absolutely , ' i said .
nick knew it was a small one .
he had watched it but he had not seemed to notice it .
” “are you asking me ?
each time , as he swung , the crowd shouted .
" he ' s always in bed when his wife gets back from the show .
was taken by a dolphin .
and besides they eat all right at the hotel .
life of charles the second and looked up every once in a while to watch the locusts .
” “he’s helping me now , ” the girl , maria , said .
he ran twenty paces and then , as the police cars stopped in front of the house , the sirens
nick moved downstream .
" " anything you want .
" you don ' t mean it , " bill said .
along her and i figured , hell no , that bite wasn’t poisonous .
very , very large .
they sat in front of the fire and drank the irish whisky and water .
she wouldn’t ever marry anybody that didn’t make her .
from spanish influenza .
wops , said boyle , i can tell wops a mile of .
” “what’s your name ?
” “how do you muffle a hammer ?
_num_ with a muzzle velocity of two tons had hit him in the mouth , nor what kept him coming
" " i should imagine he would be very interesting .
i spread a newspaper on the stone and brett sat down .
“you’re a fine woman , ” he said .
she wears herself to death on them .
the wind is very wild and we can go down and sit by the fire .
it was a country to wake from , happy to have had the dream and , seeing if it would
" " no , " mr .
' ' rigged up my rod and made a cast and it was dark , and there was a nighthawk
he was watching manuel out in the center of the arena .
" i missed you , " he said .
“you’re silly , ” the young man said .
” “i have no great use for the leg .
he looked around at them .
" hail mary full of grace the lord is with thee .
“they’ve been there since the day the truck broke down , ” he said .
but you asked me to tell you .
' do i have to hate the krauts because we kill them ?
but she does it .
" i cannot laugh yet .
we lost two beyond the isonzo , one on the bainsizza and one on the carso .
she wiped the cups out with a paper napkin , poured in scotch , the bottle still in the carton
, it makes no difference .
" it wasn ' t my idea .
“so i am .
i put the rifle up and sighted on his chest .
otherwise there would be none .
the only mystery that he believed in except the occasional bravery of man .
“they are decent clients .
” “i miss the wife .
' ' i think it probably was .
it seemed a very long stairway .
in remembering that , there were only two people , so i would pray for them both .
' ' you can always remember that shot .
they took down their skis from where they leaned against the wall in the inn .
a mockingbird hung in a wicker cage at a corner of the porch , and it was not singing now
” “let’s have another drink , ” she said .
” “no , ” ole andreson said .
“you’d better drink a bottle of beer , ” i told him .
” suzy walked around the long frame building and climbed the front steps again .
the old man was dreaming about the lions .
" " and you will stay here now for a little while ?
, dad ?
and behind the mountains , the clear sharpness of the peak in the evening light and , riding down along
i’ll come up and see you .
they weren ' t very bright .
i imagine that i learned it too early .
i hope they can fix that arm , he thought .
i don ' t think he ' s that way .
' ' they will be swept out when the tide comes in .
i guess it is fun to be that way and have a loving wife and use sawdust for brains .
one held two litres .
' where is that boy with the whisky ?
” “it was a trick , ” peroxide said .
" i do not know how people could say such terrible things to robert cohn .
hairs caught in the gold ornaments of his jacket from the close passes ; the bull standing hypnotized and the
well i ' m me , god-damn it .
about nine o’clock we saw the sand key light just about dead ahead .
that way we could sleep late and then have part of one day in town and then leave the next
this lardner , he’s so wise now , ask him about when he picked willard at toledo .
“come on” he said , “i will carry the rods .
" this is on me .
“don’t bother with these two , ” the clean-cut young man said in a wearied voice .
' he asked the portrait .
there was no mistaking the feeling when all spring left the line and it became dry and hard .
those who had caught sharks had taken them to the shark factory on the other side of the cove where
it was morning and had been morning for some time and he heard the plane .
m ' cola brought the food inside the shelter tent .
" " how did you like it ?
” “you have to go to see him , john .
she selected it and i bought it .
” the nigger asked .
” “oh !
the corridor was high and narrow with tiers of cells on either side .
he came out from the kitchen .
" remember we are in september .
there was close , heavy , second-growth timber on both sides of the road and blackberry and raspberry bushes grew
we all had breakfast in a café .
to work and train in order to bum it out of his body .
i say , jake , do we get a drink ?
she did not wave , but stood there looking after us .
i knew there was something between him and brett .
please , jim .
“she’s a lovely car , ” the girl said .
train .
we’ll be happy won’t we ?
that was bound to come .
” “did you get any pictures ?
" was i not .
the people shouted as each new luminous paper bubble careened , caught fire , and fell .
where the hell were we , pop ?
the wind had dried the mud and the wheels were beginning to lift dust .
there were no tricks and no mystifications .
' because you love them already .
' and you ' re the sun .
connais-vous des champagnes ?
i heard my name and called down the stairs .
it was like a certain stretch on the p .
then , having scalped that half-breed renegade and standing , watching the dogs tear him , his face unchanging ,
i’ve felt so unnervous .
it’s a shame i couldn’t have outfitted really good .
” “i wish it would .
the rest was the necessary garnishing of a dish .
" " who are the two fellows with john ?
if you take your time with the tape recorder you can get the words right .
“them indians , ” said mrs .
“chances are he’s dead in there , ” wilson remarked .
oh how do you do , she said .
he , gabriele , flew , but he was not a flier .
his mind was working very hard and clear .
' i think we ' ll find him dead , ' i whispered to pop .
and what would i do to jack johnson with a razor .
he made him up you know .
" the guard will pick him up , " one waiter said .
” “it is understandable , ” said the oldest porter .
foot two inches too far forward and the knife did not pass , but had slipped in as easily as
it was there for all fishermen who wanted it .
they were all quiet now , their heads down .
a lot of people went there that i did not like , the same as at the stork , say
" " don ' t be an ass .
nobody could have been on deck in that blow and rain .
" " i ' ve talked too ruddy much .
it ' s no good to change the religion .
he charged fuentes’s cape , with the canvas hanging from his splintered horn , and the crowd laughed .
” he lay then and was quiet for a while and looked across the heat shimmer of the plain to
” “i’m always hungry .
” asked the tall waiter .
” “i won’t have you circulating around to no purpose , ” captain paravicini said .
” he was happy now .
so i would go on reading about the river that the tartars came across when raiding , and the drunken
it was so narrow here that his willow pole would have spanned it and as he came close to the
“i’ll push the boat off for you .
" " no , " the old man said .
it was an idiotic idea , he said , “a theory , like another .
" " they ' re always late , " i said .
' ' might make lots of trouble .
" " as you wish .
" " what happened finally ?
" come on , drink along with me .
” “good-bye , jimmy , ” fred said .
” “i’m not if you’re not .
it ' s no use to walk ahead and find there ' s nothing coming behind you .
if he went down there went fifty thousand bucks .
the gondoliere wore a heavy blue navy sweater and he was bare-headed too .
” “it’s twenty-eight cents a gallon .
never once did he look up .
better watch it .
' ' do you remember everything from the old days ?
hear the first noise that would send them rushing into the bush .
to her .
the sea was a slate blue and he could see the sails of twelve sailing barges running with the wind
just then , watching his lines , he saw one of the projecting green sticks dip sharply .
maybe smaller .
he could not feel it for the ballrooms .
you asked him for it , and he was a nicelooking horse , too .
“keep your eye peeled for her , joe , ” he’d say , “she’ll be back .
" your number ' s dirty .
and the hall porter was well through his bag .
" " i couldn ' t help looking at them .
some nights too i made up streams , and some of them were very exciting , and it was like
manuel picked it up and put it in his pocket .
he was a fish to keep a man all winter , he thought .
pulling at him .
" so long , fella , " bill said .
the cross roads .
” “we can have everything .
" " the nigger that cooks .
" take a worm can .
" " no , " said the thin one .
after they , or the colonel , rather , had paid the gondoliere who was unknowing , yet knowing all
pop said there was nothing to do about them in there .
charo was deadly thirsty and truly devout and the sun set very slowly .
on the barrera below us , his head on his arms , not seeing , not hearing anything , only
” “get them to help you in about an hour , ” said the lieutenant .
it was sort of stuff like this .
" " good luck , " the old man said .
the principal buyer walked ahead , tall , good-looking in white turban and coast clothing , carrying an umbrella as
the turtles saw them , approached them from the front , then shut their eyes so they were completely carapaced
up , the big cook and the boys held her , and the others pressing forward to lift and if
" the adjutant made a motion with his hand to the second runner who went out .
“why did you bring them in so late , mrs .
the wind blew it out of his head .
a new thing .
” “spezia , ” the lady said .
some writers are only born to help another writer to write one sentence .
soldier was always kidding jack , just sort of kidding him all the time .
' ' where will our house be ?
his hands were folded on the blankets .
there was a deep depression in the forehead and a ridge ran from between the bare white eye sockets and
“i’m fine papa really fine .
” they went back to their corners .
of the people .
” “i would like a whiskey-soda .
' ' maybe the portrait will help .
seemed as if all the bare trees , the bushes , the cut brush and all the grass and the
“don’t you think he’s cute ?
you know my name isn ' t really harris .
“damn funny things happen to people .
which is quite an old place .
" good , " romero laughed .
the greeks were nice chaps too .
i met him on the stairs , and took one of the bags .
we shook hands and i went out the door with john .
' ' to my room , ' the colonel said .
we ' ll be above it .
” “will we have that ?
you won ' t mind , will you ?
” we knew , from repeated questionings , that all germans coming through on this escape route were making for
" that ' s what makes me so sore .
he had been a good soldier .
' ' better not know , ' the colonel said .
it seemed the last thing that connected me with spain and the fiesta .
“tu ne peux pas , ” fontan said .
i handed bags through the windows , and we were out on the dim longness of the platform , and
there must be other comfortable trains that don’t go so fast .
except , the colonel thought , the hours of the tides change each day with the moon and the hours
he loves you and he likes me .
he was a hungarian , a sad hungarian , not one of the cheerful kind .
the monos whacking him on the back of his legs with the rods .
he was grateful that he had gone through his education on american women before now because this was a very
he couldn’t stand things , i guess .
i feel plenty dizzy .
' what the hell have you got to be sorry about with a rhino like that ?
shot from the stern , skittered on into speed to tumble end over end .
“when you don’t want me i’ll go straight home .
" " i wasn ' t supposed to .
' ' mind ?
and it was his job .
so he could read while he ate .
the sun was gone behind the hill and there was a shadow all across the plain and the small animals
" what do you follow her around for ?
he put a handful of coffee in the pot and dipped a lump of grease out of a can and
s right shoulder .
you let her sleep , his conscience said .
writes .
what had gone through because when the kraut bazooka hit and the vehicle went up we all dropped our heads
* * * * * mr .
because they were against belmonte the public were for romero .
' ' well , the pistol-slappers , in all the pride of their pistol-slappery , were awaiting the arrival of
so in the heat the train stopped at dezenzano and there was lago de garda and those troops are the
” “so long , ” jack said .
i’m too old for that .
when you love someone and he is your hero , you like to hear about the places and the things
don ' t think , old man , he said to himself .
" " i hope so .
there isn’t any formation for watching spectacles .
sing hold onto the stern .
dry tortugas .
a postman was coming along the sidewalk .
noticing them by the heatwaves in the air above the leaves where the sun hit the metal .
death .
it was a woman’s voice , giving the second half of the password , and it spoke quickly and unsteadily
i never touched the money .
” a woman asked from the doorway .
" we lunched up-stairs at botin ' s .
“you said you had fifty grand on walcott , ” i said .
she loved to fish .
he’s such a good boy and works hard all the time and never run around or make any trouble .
” “you ought to get married .
“drink up , splayzey , ” he said .
“who won the ball game ?
” i guess that was the truth all right .
he asked me how many times i had seen him in the ring .
all in all they were known as a comparatively happily married couple , one of those whose disruption is often
“they’re lovely hills , ” she said .
i stroked her hair .
" they felt so badly .
the party’s over and you are with your hostess now .
” max looked into the mirror all the time he was talking .
give the various capsules .
" it is not only a question of youth and confidence although those things are very beautiful .
" my legs are going bad .
” al’s voice came from the kitchen .
on each calm placid turn the fish made he was gaining line and he was sure that in two turns
guy came back and we backed the car out and started .
it was higher than a big scythe blade and a very pale lavender above the dark blue water .
' good and fast ?
it was ten pesetas a day but they’ve raised it now i’m an officer .
hey , waiter !
” “i’m sorry about those baskets , mrs .
or , raised in damp cellars .
” the girl stood up and walked to the end of the station .
they aren’t tank men .
he turned off the electric light .
' ' did _you_ hear us ?
because maybe you cannot stay in the town because you have got too few people in , and by now
i walked alone all one night and nothing happened except a bicycle cop stopped me and asked to see my
who are you feeding that to , he told himself .
, but alice was beginning to shake again .
” we were outside jack’s room .
ignace by noon and she’ll bring everything we need .
“i wish the boys were here to point out things and show me things and tell me about things .
the back of the head without any word to paco .
plane that burned and not been able to bale out before the fire reached him .
what does the drunken one do ?
the moon was well on its way down now .
“the sahara desert ?
” “you don’t want to get shot in a café brawl , ” i said .
fisherman would give a year to tie into , he loses him , he loses my heavy tackle , he
c rations were bad .
" now i believe in nothing .
but he had said it enough in this country too and he had believed it .
“i held you next to my heart when you were a tiny baby .
' but suppose they had left something there ?
" i got to keep warm , " he said .
" bill eyed the monument .
then remembering to be kind , added , ' in our time .
” “can they fill the ice jug ?
but it was not and he found that out in the next three days .
that it would be very bad for the cause .
“so you think that’s right ?
the sail was patched with flour sacks and , furled , it looked like the flag of permanent defeat .
” “must go in the water first , ” she said .
don ' t you kill him for me .
" we had stopped at the floor our rooms were on .
' ' one hundred and twenty-two sures .
” “wonderful .
“that’s dad , ” bill said .
jack puts his thumb through the slit in the bandage and then wrapped his hand nice and smooth .
” “i always carry them on board , ” i said .
the woman came out from the bar .
there was a boy from a farm , about sixteen years old , with a broken leg that had been
i said , " what b ' wana ?
then he started to snore .
how you want me to work ?
then they were steady to see across the ocean which was rough now with the increasing breeze .
' but maybe not with the same intensity .
“they greased it .
to the sea .
he did not see us at first .
the cows are in the hills but i don ' t believe the bulls are with them now .
” “i had a wonderful time .
' so , the colonel thought , here we come into the last round and i do not know even
' he went off and my wife said : ' you were getting awfully profound .
they always take it personally , he thought .
the nearest any man was to victory that day was probably the frenchman who came , with his head held
" she went on , talking rapidly .
” “he’s a good man , ” i said .
seals , came walking back and stood in a group talking , under the electric light in the patio .
” “you’ve got some good kids , ” hernandez said .
the old man held the line delicately , and softly , with his left hand , unleashed it from the
but he hit him with a left from nowhere and hit him three times as he started to go .
i guess the tide’s high enough to go through the lakes now , harry thought .
" what ' s the matter with you , son ?
another waiter had come up in front of the table .
give us a prescription , doctor " to a .
" " you talk too damn much , " al said .
he heard the ca-ra-wong !
' ' yes , my colonel .
he ' s hunting now .
a deserted paved street that ran to the sea .
" " they ' re so bloody , " mike said .
" " let me tell you .
my father say one could well wish themselves dead if once they become a victim of that malady--i believe my
most fishermen hated the taste .
" fight them , " he said .
you got anything on your mind ?
i don ' t know why he had to get a malady .
he leaned over the side and pulled loose a piece of the meat of the fish where the shark had
" i ' m not paying for any cuadrilla out of sixty duros .
up and perhaps start him off over that heat-hazy , baking , noontime plain .
“how about jack ?
' let ' s just ride through the park , ' the colonel said .
“sure , ” said retana .
his lips were trembling .
across the stretch of gravel and down the stone steps .
" " she says that italy is her country .
” every one was very respectful to the peroxide blonde , who said all this in a high stagey way
” “i’m awfully sorry i cried , ” she said .
" " you mean they don ' t want to see us until a half an hour ?
" i am utterly unable to resign myself , " he said and choked .
i love you .
then the electric lights came on , and it was pleasant along the streets looking in the windows .
he stood waiting , his face sallow , his hands fairly low , proudly and firmly waiting for the assault
a german machine-gun pistol started shooting from the right-hand slit .
he’s too far !
accurate .
” “where do you want to carry them ?
juma had come up limping and bloody , the skin of his forehead hanging down over his left eye ,
' ' you .
“yes , ” said macomber , standing up .
_num_ st soldier—have a drink of it yourself .
he might never see her again .
me in all right .
“and you know the name of the saloon ?
, to shoot them in the area where they de-trucked , than to have to try to bring them back
” “maybe the nerve will regenerate .
way , except a little toward the last , and then it wasn’t his fault , he was riding over
sun struck them through the screens of leaves ; the earth was turned a bright yellow at the edge of
also it is very hard to do .
instead of the cool early morning smell of the forest there was a nasty stink like the mess cats make
has a wonderful face though , the colonel thought .
" i don ' t know , " i said .
" " i ' m glad you ' ve got them .
but he said nothing of this , and put his hand in his pocket .
his throat had been cut from ear to ear .
” “oh , he’s a better guy , all right , ” bill said .
” i asked him .
" i ' ll have a roast pork tenderloin with apple sauce and mashed potatoes , " the first man
she was frightened but she wanted it .
damned good , you know .
' she said this in italian .
' ' they ' re bastards , ' pop said .
he cut the rope then and went astern to noose the tail .
freckles .
” “look , littless .
this macomber was an odd one though .
he would not mind calling me .
he picked up the glasses and took them to the bathroom .
but i must insist that you will never gather a sufficient supply of these insects for a day ' s
if any supplies have come i ' ll bring them down tonight .
i could never feel anything about the russian , sister cecilia said .
villalta standing straight and the red hilt of the sword sticking out dully between the bull’s shoulders .
the free end of the two reserve coils to the loop of the two reserve coils of the next line
it had stopped raining outside but there were big clouds over the mountains .
“i had a talk with your father last night , harold , ” she said , “and he is willing
it was a close-up picture of the head and chest of a dead nigger with his throat cut clear across
hold it !
it might interest you and you can look at the uniform while i am talking .
at the hotel in triberg the proprietor had a fine season .
jack broke away from it and missed with the right .
" bill raised the wine-skin and let the stream of wine spurt out and into his mouth , his head
it was not pleasant .
if you want people to like you you have only to spend a little money .
bill slowed , then turned abruptly onto the sandy road that ran up through the orchard to the farmhouse .
i made quite a good shot on the tommy .
" then i got a wire : " back on monday .
he fell backward against the tree , held tight around the neck , trudy holding , choking him , and
he knew where he wanted to strike the river and he kept on through the pine plain , mounting small
well , the wife .
” “it’s a shame , ” i said .
all you had to do was not go on the second day .
it was dim and dark and the pillars went high up , and there were people praying , and it
" thanks for coming around .
and drove back to the cabins and put the car in the space between cabins .
head and torso and pinned it high on her left shoulder .
at the counter the girl filled the two wine-skins for me .
the sun was taking the frost out of the grass .
you ' d never have to say a word .
i never get up .
then , as he leaned against the line and slapped his left hand hard and fast against his thigh he
that i could write a better novel .
old woman .
clean cabins .
“see you , morgen .
it is the light of course but it is necessary that the place be clean and pleasant .
they don’t look too happy though , do they ?
in the five days i saw a dozen or more kudu cows and one young bull with a string of
fronds of our victories , the worn light bulbs of our discoveries and the empty condoms of our great loves
the highway that rose and fell straight away ahead with banks of red dirt sliced cleanly away and the second-growth
' what ' s the matter ?
” “i hate it and i always have hated it .
deeper , in another part of the mud , you were always losing vehicles and , of course , the
" this is a fight that would draw a lot more than the garden could hold .
” “and that shirt is of little value now , ” mr .
" did you take many ?
the twilight , only it was daylight in the woods and hemlock needles stuck against your belly .
front , smith’s house , stroud’s house , dillworth’s house , horton’s house and van hoosen’s house .
a whole tribe of them had gone on just ahead of us and their droppings were everywhere .
“and you give away a lot of things free too , don’t you ?
_num_ - _num_ _num_ -grain solid bullet that bit his flank and ripped in sudden hot scalding nausea through his
maybe only for a couple of days , though .
little and letting them run a little going up .
inside the tent the light came through the brown canvas .
' hapana , ' in the same tone he used when we followed the lion into the sanseviera that time
there’re a lot of people in walcott’s corner .
civil war by-line : ernest hemingway a moveable feast three novels the snows of kilimanjaro and other stories the hemingway
garrick and abdullah built a fire and they , kamau and m ' cola cooked over it .
but what we want to get today is berries .
' manamouki !
maybe i can trade somebody out of one of these real down jackets that nobody ever sold that had one
" get him then , " retana said .
” they wheeled him in , thin , his skin transparent , his hair black and needing to be cut
fire in the street .
we dropped them .
” “but that boy’s terrible , mr .
was running with a quick trot along the top of the bank .
" it ' s true , " alice said .
“don’t talk about it , mr .
she liked to read in the evening before dinner and she drank scotch and soda while she read .
there he was , face down on the bed , crying .
that night charley wyman stayed to supper at smith’s .
” “in this so dear spezia ?
it is a strong but pleasant odour and i know it well , but this smell i did not know
" i don ' t think schmidt is catholique .
he looked at the scoreboard .
” “what does he do for it ?
he wouldn ' t go to confession to father but he promised to say his prayers , and not a
the road ran up the hill into the pine trees .
' wanderobo-masai wonderful masai , ' i said .
it is a beautiful movement and only a few people in this world can feel it and accomplish it .
the old gentleman took out from an inside pocket of his coat a leather pocket-book .
really living it .
" " jake ' s rather the same way .
m ' cola answered and we shouted back and forth and i could hear them talking and crashing in the
you have to be cut out for it .
c ' est normale .
in the café .
zurito stood beside him .
' you ask .
' now when you look past murano you see venice .
it was a good dinner .
i ' m hungry .
there’s only a case left .
” “i could put them in if you’ll tell me how .
cohn said good night outside the door and went on up to his room .
“you want to make some money ?
i wish he did not have to have that glass eye , the colonel thought .
nick went on into the kitchen .
i ' ll just lie here for a little while .
soon it was a rolling black cloud and in the greasy black smoke you could see the red flames .
he looked under the counter .
chapter x they were walking , now , along the right side of the street that led to the gritti
in the park it was dark under the trees .
poor cayetano , she said .
because i would not sign for mine .
at the other end of the corral a gate opened and two steers came in , swaying their heads and
wondered if i got to know her if her mother would let me take her out to auteuil or tremblay
bumped them ?
we ' ve had a jolly time here at burguete .
i knew he had a big oar .
“let’s take him back to the club , ” the girl said .
we followed the marsh out and then i crossed another stream , shoulder high , holding my gun and shooting
that ' s why i would never go to russia .
“listen to me .
i did not feel sleepy .
“nothing will happen to you if you’re all right .
' this high pressure salesman , and i say this with no disrespect , but with admiration for all his
” “go on .
we all ought to make sacrifices for literature .
i ' ve got the stuff .
it may make him jump though and i would rather he stayed circling now .
' ' that ' s it .
" i laughed .
' ' all cows , ' said garrick .
his eyes got walleyed and red at the edges of the lids .
not taking advantage of it ?
” he stopped , then continued .
" we were embarrassed .
they were peasants going up into the hills .
called from the tent .
you could get a meal , then , all right .
that juma gave him the .
it feels wonderful .
' he asked the girl in italian .
” they undressed sitting on the blankets .
when he and david had come through it had been in the winter and they had made their headquarters in
thick , white tusks upcurving , his eyes showing bright , was a very large wart-hog boar watching us from
glad to be home , the of ice sent his mail up to the flat .
and he did not know whether to take the one that he knew was a good road through pleasant country
the shark ' s head was out of water and his back was coming out and the old man could
” “yes , ” said the manager .
” “no need to tell him so .
" thanks , " said the darkest and smallest one .
" he is an ass .
" has he done this for us more than once ?
they damn well will not .
everybody has to lie .
" " they ' re all nice bars .
" although it is unjust , he thought .
” “somebody said she was working up at the soo .
” “i don’t want to have to talk to them .
" you are nineteen ?
but that is not why i wish to feel him .
” “oh , shut up , ” macomber almost shouted .
” “you prefer either one ?
” “are you an italian ?
then i would start there and remember this way again , until i reached the war .
now we ' ve got to cross the stream and work down toward them and try to get above them
" " i ' ve got a headache .
anyway it did not work well at all until it began to get dark outside ; but all night it
" " how ' d you come out ?
you’d be lucky to catch a grouper .
went with the ewes ; that in the late summer you found bull elk in bunches too , before the
could put your fist in , if it were a small fist and you wanted to put it there ,
" " he ' s blind as a tick , " mike said .
” he shut his eyes , and in place of the man with the beard who looked at him over
she had a pale , almost olive-coloured skin , a profile that could break your , or anyone else '
kings .
" put some water in it , " i said .
the guard will get him .
’ asked the priest .
i went over and stood the springfield against the hut between them and the tips reached past the muzzle of
“lackawannius is calling you .
” “no , ” roger said .
“that big dinge took him by surprise .
” i was still shaky from seeing that fish and feeling plenty sick about the tackle and i couldn’t listen
" an excellent diagnosis , doctor .
he looked at himself in the mirror , set in the half-closed door .
, nor was he bound in any way .
my word yes a most pleasant business .
' ' that ' s easy .
five to three .
“poor fellow .
only got so many orgasms to his whole life and what difference does it make when you feel worse after
the mules went out .
i just feel terribly .
“not patriots .
” “i said it should have been trepanned .
” trudy nodded .
where they were intensely disappointed in the garbo film , which showed the great star in miserable low surroundings when
then , when we were far enough up and along , we crawled out on to a rocky place and
and went out and found my boat where i had her inside of mango key and she was all right
william campbell had hoped to hold a slight lead over the burlesque show until they reached the pacific coast .
” said the little man , his voice rising .
i ' ve told her you ' re asleep .
but they did not mean anything .
make it two to go .
boys in the lower forms wear .
from the grappa ?
the sword-handler looked back , shook his head , and said something .
' ' m ' cola saw the calf .
" " or wear purple undershirts .
" it ' s rotten here in the hotel .
there were plenty of good places to camp on the river .
of good blood and were not afraid .
” “it always has been .
but i don ' t care about me .
” “i don’t mind jail , ” the nigger said .
clock i went out for a while .
he ' s too tired .
“write down the numbers on the bow .
' listen , ' the man in the boat called .
they had stopped on the way for several drinks .
lighting a fire , its shadow jumping on the tents , he could feel the return of acquiescence in this
” “have you got the rest of the money ?
" she wanted us to go down in the ring , too , " bill said .
" i ' d better take the bags over to the other side of the station , " the man
“no sir , ” the little man said .
you have no fear of going home before your usual hour ?
ahead of the formal procession and behind it danced the riau-riau dancers .
” “she’s got eyes like a snake .
" there goes brett ' s lunch , " bill said .
' ' i get my ducks at longchamps on madison avenue , ' the surgeon said .
slept or read while we waited for the lorries to come up .
" he ' ll be up soon and i can last .
” the man took off his cap .
" " you and your quiet , " said brett .
worn road through the forest .
think of these things in _num_ --was there a risqué page in puritan history ?
the road of the pass was hard and smooth and not yet dusty in the early morning .
” and he and the fat wop went out through the tables .
he washed his left hand and wiped it on his trousers .
holding up the scissors .
i can find out anyway .
there is no problem .
nothing was finished .
cave-in , one whole end had caved in ; it was that started them ; making it cold up that
there isn’t any line will hold them .
eddy and billy tabeshaw leaned on their cant-hooks sweating in the sun .
he took a very small drink of the water .
" nick asked .
nick walked back up the ties to where his pack lay in the cinders beside the railway track .
, chopped onions and vinegar .
” “i couldn’t get into it .
” we stood and watched .
jim was asleep .
" you ' ve a nice friend , jake .
” “what’s he drinking ?
i ' m all right again .
” “i just went out to get a breath of air .
we sat down at a table under a big tree and the king ordered whiskey and soda .
from being ill in nairobi and we had gone on a foot safari to hunt rhino in the forest .
" " does he think you ' re coming alone ?
“he was english .
the dusk to the hospital .
i never think about it .
africa .
we will just lay it on the line once more and the hell with it and with its ugly face
“potsdam .
' ' i ' d get up to that tumbril with you and still be able to spit .
“i know where i can get a key , ” he said .
“yes , ” said the american lady .
it seemed too complicated sitting on the petrol case and i spread my raincoat on the ground in front of
" i ' m not so damn drunk as i sounded , " he said .
“americans make the best husbands , ” the american lady said to my wife .
mister francis , ” the nigger said softly .
” “why don’t you come out from behind that counter if you want to talk like that ?
the chairs were carved but the wood seats were worn and comfortable .
' ' what about him ?
but you never get tired of trout nor of perch .
' ' i ' ll try it .
in their youth .
” it was a long day on the train after the rain started .
" " he ' s hard to describe .
he heard the little man counting slowly , one , two , three , four , five , and on—aloud
i carried the other .
above the walls there were heads in the windows of the houses .
the prospects were so good .
_num_ rifle .
at dark , hunting an animal whose swahili name he could not then remember , with trackers in whom he
“which way are you boys going ?
i’m going to turn in .
from the white , cleanly picked skulls the horns rose in slow spirals that spreading made a turn , another
“i’ll ride back now in the afternoon .
she loved to fish with nick .
' where ' s karl ?
they were raking the lawns and burning leaves in the road , and i stopped for a long time and
rifle on safety .
' so do i , ' said pop .
manuel felt the wind on his back from the capes flopping at the bull , and then the bull was
i couldn’t help it .
we stopped and two men came by with torches and stopped and hit on the wheels with hammers .
' we have ascended the cook at the magnificent to the rank of commendatore .
sing had hold of the roller we had across the stern to slide a big fish on board .
' ' we damn well will be , ' said the colonel .
by the time the second rocket had burst there were so many people in the arcade , that had been
they can go faster from fair beauty to the knocker ' s shop than any other animal , he thought
“i’ve been thinking it over .
' feel in your right pocket , ' she said .
he smoothed the uprooted earth .
dark , there was a racing motor car finished entirely in silver with dans argent lettered on the hood .
this stuff don ' t get you anywhere .
it’s exceptional .
some of his french friends told him .
“it isn’t like fiddling while rome burns , ” roger said .
“anything of that sort should be done at night .
“it’s nice here , ” he said .
i saw them unloaded .
and put them into the mink ?
" the man who was stencilling the new ones and tossing them into a pile stopped .
nor did he hunt any more .
“they certainly tried a nice double-cross , ” john said .
i ' ve got a nasty tongue .
“you bet !
we had been up that morning since five o ' clock .
he has also read a little in some illustrated books he brought with him .
“well , you can’t tell , ” i said .
he could remember the weight of the heavy gold-brocaded fighting jacket on his shoulders on that hot afternoon in may
the road descended with short , barely rounded turns .
the bottles came .
nick’s hand was shaky .
" drink it slow .
highly humorous was the hyena obscenely loping , full belly dragging , at daylight on the plain , who ,
face shining in the arc light .
' shining , bright and beautiful , because they had scraped the invasion paint by then , or maybe they
don’t let on about that .
and i’m not even grown-up .
' ' of course , ' the colonel said .
' pop asked him .
' ' he thinks you ' re funny , ' pop said .
i ' ve been lost in this place , the colonel thought , and i was never lost in my
” “i’m sorry , ” she said , “if you don’t understand .
there was a tree made shade over fontan’s back porch and i sat there at a table and madame fontan
i do not mind this thing at all .
i will take this officer next .
crying , “no kill him !
i think it would be better to have lunch out and get some exercise walking .
" " you can ' t have an idea what it ' s like .
rocks , cedars along the bank and white birches , the logs warm in the sun , smooth to sit
“he wanted a quart of it , ” said the wife .
“in the flit gun , you know , ” he said .
' have another _carpano_ , ' he said to the _gran maestro_ .
these additional treatments he requested himself , remember .
twice and was slightly misshapen .
“where were you ?
look at the beggar now , wilson thought .
it should not be confused with showmanship either .
" schmidt , " she said .
" " tell the rest , " bill said .
there ' ll be another one in a minute .
derecho .
you know i made the resolution not to cry .
been withered almost as small as the major ' s , before it had taken a machine course , and
“you venerable alcoholic .
" outside it was getting dark .
“he got that high voice out of the same fight .
" he says it was an accident .
cropped grass and sheep sorrel and mullen growing and to the left the quaky bog of the creek bottom where
oh , i hope i will get to be one .
she just looked at him and tears came down her cheeks and her mouth grew fuller but it did not
' ' i don ' t think it ' s advisable , ' pop said seriously .
' maybe she will even call , he thought .
blue hills beyond the swamp .
" the fish is my friend too , " he said aloud .
' ' the last was one of the first words i learned from my governess .
” “look at the cowpunchers , ” she said .
there would be one more scene maybe before he got away .
" " there ' s a certain quality about her , a certain fineness .
that was the story of the lion .
bill and i go down on the morning of the _num_ th .
and speed that , scuttling flat and uncrushable he would make you undress completely to kill him .
come on , bill .
you can see it only a little more than a mile from here , ” red told him .
" give me a response .
cut up the meat we rode home in the blowing dust , our faces grey with it , and the
the forceful girl took two and the young man with the old school tie face took one .
“there are only two places , and they are occupied , ” i said .
the birds were all pulling out and leaving her and i headed for sou’west key towing the skiff and the
wrapped .
” “this house is a folly .
“just the same , so far , ” he said .
there was deep water right up to the edge of the bar and i went along the edge of the
he stood there for some time watching and listening , then he took his sweater off the bird cage and
but there weren’t any cigarettes and postcards and no chocolate .
“two hundred and fifty pesetas , ” retana said .
“without the berries ?
after a while i went down into the cockpit again and there was eddy !
“you’ve got your lion , ” robert wilson said to him , “and a damned fine one too .
his gaiety comes in contact with the seriousness of the war like a butterfly—” “oh , very like a butterfly
a distaste for everything that had happened to him in the war set in because of the lies he had
“now we are all good friends again .
“to the room .
from above we could see nothing of them , so we cut across the ravine and the hillside thinking we
they give you a feeling that the world would be destroyed , would actually be destroyed before your eyes ,
' hapana , ' he said , and waved his hand in front of his face .
s body had been dumped on the boneheap ; on the public boneheap .
, and went into the kitchen where he dipped up a drink of water from the pail beside the kitchen
margot said nothing but sat back in the corner of the seat .
the critic of _el heraldo_ lit a cigarette and tossed the match at the bull , then wrote in his
” “that’s where you read about the unwritten law .
bill tried to talk some spanish to one of the carabineers , but it did not go very well .
we all heard the noise of a tracked vehicle .
they were not in the crowd .
his older brother was with him as a banderillero , but he did not live in this hotel .
“old head’s awfully wet .
" speak to the lady in your native tongue , guy .
gilead trees and then we were past the clearing and there was the cove with the mouth of the little
” “how much are you getting ?
back , beyond the cape , the brown and blue waters joined .
the others can ' t ever learn what he was born with .
it ' s good .
" get any ?
" " i got into this town last night , " william campbell said , speaking against the sheet .
' i have brought campari bitters and a bottle of gordon gin .
are you a girl of eighteen ?
_ _num_ d soldier_--i can ' t drink the damn stuff .
but mostly it was dark and unreal and sad and strange and classical like the engravings .
belmonte was very good .
the girl wore a tweed suit , her skin was a smooth golden brown , her blonde hair was cut
the waiter came and said the taxi was outside .
each side and the mountains off to the right .
’ “why did you never ?
don’t drink off the floor .
see that you do .
" they said you were here .
it was comic and i liked it .
they weren’t at the post hardly any time at all when the gong started and you could see them way
i wouldn’t take a nickel from you .
you ' re a colonel of infantry , boy .
that will be a big help to me .
” “that’s why they build cathedrals to be like this .
kamau and m ' cola were both laughing at him .
” “do you really think so ?
“later on i might want to use the bed but that won’t be until much later .
” “he’s smarter than he acts .
but that isn’t his country .
” “where is it ?
he was looking ahead now to see where the canal road joined the main highway again .
husband , by now , did not believe in any of us .
" suddenly screamed the lieutenant .
only a short charge away .
of plums , and drank the third , and last , bottle of beer .
would i like him to call me ?
” “he comes from a long line of english earls , ” said the other prisoner .
i have been away from my family for three months .
it was early afternoon and the sky was clouding over and i was looking at p .
one goya , long dead , and it is extremely doubtful if these animals , were they able to call
" that was extraordinary .
he is working .
” george said from the bed .
that the sincerity of his own bull-fighting would be so set off by the false æsthetics of the bull-fighters of
stand facing me , absolutely still , his nose up , and shot him in the chest .
i got in the front seat with the wanderobo-masai .
" put it in there , henry , " the count motioned .
lantern light and the stakes were higher all the time as herr lent lost more .
' " so the bull-fighter fellow hit him just as hard as he could in the face , and then
now , on this rhino hunt , i had taken the first crack at the country .
too many rear-guard actions coming back from moskova .
she was crying .
the denunciation chicote’s in the old days in madrid was a place sort of like the stork , without the
various capsules .
making them more costly or something .
feeling the inside of the birds hot on his right hand he found the edible pans of the giblets and
there were the young warriors who had run with us , and now their women and the children all came
" " were you out on the coast with him ?
you know george shiras three .
do you know the way to trieste from here ?
" " monsieur is going to divorce , " the first porter explained .
brought down the right hand and did the same thing again .
” “i think so .
the undertaker had been both proud and smugly pleased .
you were lovely this morning .
” “you’re just plugged , ” he said .
' ' yes , i do , ' she said .
the cossacks ' that was very good .
' ' she ' s been around a long time , ' the colonel said .
” “good-by and thanks .
get her to go on a trip .
it was still deadly hot .
' ' unnecessary please .
” “i’m sorry , too .
it was too late to get back to charlevoix .
" just act as though nothing had happened .
one first and two behind .
' ' why ?
fast toward shore .
it was a big man with a heavy brown face like an indian .
if there ' s a jug goes along , or a case of beer , they think it ' s
" " come on , harvey , " i said .
please say you forgive me , jake .
’ and she said , ‘darling , everyone thought you knew what you were doing .
there were beetles and insects with legs like grass stems , and grubs in old rotten logs ; white grubs
it had that picked-over , shot-out feeling .
on a waterbuck that had heard us , but not scented us , and as we stood , perfectly quiet
" listen , billy , " william campbell said , " i want to tell you something .
" i lit the cigarette .
that ' s when it gets ' em .
“what do you see ?
” “wait a while and i’ll tell you .
i didn’t see the start of it .
" they sat on the terrace and many of the fishermen made fun of the old man and he was
she’s got the flag up and she’s walking out onto the dock .
another of the same .
his old legs and shoulders pivoted with the swinging of the pulling .
" " no , " said the count .
“come here , kid , i got something for you .
let ' s pay this good man off and go over and sit on the bench there under the tree
certainly not .
” the man looked at nick and smiled .
rocks and the pines and the snow and all the pointed steeples---- ' ' _campaniles_ , ' the colonel said
the surface .
' with my old friend and severest critic .
" i can ' t stand it to think my life is going so fast and i ' m not
probably had more creditors than anybody in england .
" " i wish i were .
" the hawks , he thought , that come out to sea to meet them .
there was a crowd of kids watching the car , and the square was hot , and the trees were
' ' i ' ll not forget about the over-age jeep engine .
droopy grinned .
' ' it will give him some shooting , ' pop said .
there can be real canadian bacon from maybe canada , even .
gritti ?
" you wish something ?
” “he certainly can drink liquor .
" look at the three of them .
i have done all that can be done .
he was a general now again and he was happy .
" bill looked around , half-shaved , and then went on talking into the mirror while he lathered his face
we threw all these germans into the river seine .
than any book , lying in the chestnut woods , and in the fall mist behind the duomo going across
richard from renata with love .
“i say that is a sound idea , ” the englishman said .
" " can ' t we go together ?
your saviour , undoubtedly your saviour—and the ride for palm sunday .
and cars , with seats on the roofs , that went back and forth to the suburbs with , at
” “you called him harry .
' the _gran maestro_ said , ' thank you , my lady .
hit him .
why did you wake so early ?
odgar was thirty-two and had been twice operated on for varicocele .
the business and , being a little out of my head , thought perhaps what i was going through was
he could smell its breath .
nothing was possible now unless he himself was and he must say the things if there was ever to be
" i ' ve had the darndest time .
big as a five-peseta piece straight in back of the neck , between the sharp pitch of the bull '
he was certain he could catch small trout in the shallows , but he did not want them .
“paco said , ‘that was a cowardly and foolish thing .
” there’s a queen for you .
as you came into town .
out of the reel in a rush and making the reel sing with the click on .
“two , you mean ?
small hills , or when going through dead grass , whenever splitting wood or hauling water , by grist mills
he opened it up .
' what the hell is this ?
why , you see , robert ' s always wanted to have a mistress , and if he doesn '
there are two riflemen there already , or some boy asleep .
they spend money on themselves or for vanity , but they never pay .
and needing to be cut , his eyes very laughing , his teeth bad when he smiled .
same way .
' wapi simba ?
' ' i daresay that makes marvellous reading .
his body was heavy on his feel .
i felt it sitting by her .
that was not what it was about .
you ' ll inherit well over six feet four of it .
he would not let go and spill .
" " well , it was you .
anything about it .
nick leaned over the side of the log , found a hard place and lit the match .
' ' do you love me still on these water-worn , cold and old stones ?
tried to help get published saying how he ' s yellow .
had a balance of $ _num_ .
and chunks for the open fireplace .
evil-smelling emptiness and the odd thing was that the hyena slipped lightly along the edge of it .
they leaned back .
the other was sharp as a porcupine quill .
" you don ' t need to thank him .
' ' wait till you see one , ' the colonel said .
“sergeant , why did you kill this italian ?
' make it a very dry martini , ' the colonel said .
a trigger in her .
, over two bridges where clear , fast-flowing streams ran , through more forest , thinning now to open glades
to flush a grouse and have him whirr off to the other hill or pitch down in the valley .
but you are going to have to settle down to work , harold .
the count ?
" he stopped .
quickly as it came .
braddocks at its coming out really french .
who stood on one leg , scratched the back of his neck and carried a bow and quiver of arrows
" i must not think nonsense , he thought .
” neither jim nor jim’s big hand paid any attention to her .
' ' please , yes .
on the smoking skillet he poured smoothly the buckwheat batter .
make it seven thirtyish .
" i don ' t know , " fontan said .
” “but don’t you see that if any person has gone it is silly to hold the others ?
” “listen , jerry , ” jack put down the glass .
the exchange , though , equalized that .
he says some pretty funny things .
" " i don ' t want you to do it if you feel that way .
" " you might go good .
i ' ve tried ever since we knew each other .
' ' please love me .
" carl ain ' t no good with girls , " frank said .
he ' s hit !
senta .
” “no , ” the peroxide one said .
" i ' ll tell you what they were like .
but the shooter did not know it and he thought , i do not understand him but i must not
" he was out here all right .
' they give you anthrax , and you give them botulism .
, shaped like a broken heart , drawn up and his head with the beautiful miniature horns looking toward the
coming along the street and the voices of the children playing in a vacant lot .
the dead were present in their greatest numbers , a withdrawal having been forced and an advance later made to
" " it is very hot in the summer in madrid .
” “don’t get sore , ” the sergeant said .
in the spring some one else had to bury them .
“hey , bright boy , ” max said to nick .
well , i went to the dinner , and it was the night they ' d shot henry wilson ,
hell , what i had a month ago would have killed me in the old days before they invented the
” “you ought to take them every day .
this is my shauri now , you know .
there ' s a lot of oxygen in this air , he thought , as he faced into the wind
but once hemingway got underway on his novel—later published as for whom the bell tolls—all other writing projects were laid
" " you tell him , jake .
mirror was actuality and of this day .
it made him a little sick .
during world war ii hemingway served as a war correspondent covering the normandy invasions and the liberation of paris .
saw the swishing rush in the grass .
' ' the hell with sorrows , ' the colonel said with his eyes closed and his head resting lightly
he was alone steering on his watch in the smacks or in the turtle boats .
they both stood up .
if you want to , ” said the boy .
” “you always were a murderous bastard .
be good now .
at present we have two good writers who cannot write because they have lost confidence through reading critics .
” his father picked up the knife to cut the pie .
“it was perfect .
lie .
“sì , sì , signera , brutto tempo .
“it’s his fight .
he had a bottle with him of some sort of tea and he would finger it and watch the sun
they were all black .
i’ve got my perspective back again .
but i have no light to attract them .
that ' s the way you ' re supposed to be .
" " thank you , " the old man said .
clothes , “none of these things are horses , joe .
his return from retirement had been spoiled by romero .
“i make fun of everything , ’ he said “i think it will be fine .
] _num_ d soldier—you’re a regular christer , big boy .
better .
” “oh , much , ” said macomber .
seems sort of idiotic .
' ' i will !
tighter than a simple tobacco chewer’s mouth needed to be .
john , and he knows too much about nickie and where he would go .
plenty bad .
he worked in the mines ; now he works on a ranch .
bill rattled them and rolled , and there were three kings , an ace , and a queen .
i have failed and i speak badly of all who have succeeded .
' badder , or worse , than you will ever know .
" you see , i am commanding the battalion , " para said .
the sword-handler brought it and romero poured water over the percale of his fighting-cape , and then scuffed the lower
' at what age do you become old in this country , the colonel thought .
" " all they did was pick willard at toledo .
on the flat road we passed a fascist riding a bicycle , a heavy revolver in a holster on his
life if you were bored by it .
we saw them walk across the open , a big bulky figure in a faded corduroy coat and a very
others carried spears .
there it goes .
i never did hit him .
hell jimmy , he said , you oughtn’t to have done it .
belmonte looked ahead , his face wan and yellow , his long wolf jaw out .
“i got a thick tongue but i ain’t got a head .
' we were sitting under a tree on the summit of a hill and could see off over all the
quais as yet untouched by americans , so we had to wait forty-five minutes for a table .
’ because this whore i was whore’s assistant to is of humble origin .
from baboons , but on meeting a native with a brass-bound musket it seemed odd that he should follow the
" say , " he says to john .
' portrait , as was her fashion , was silent .
' bulls and cows .
' wanderobo-masai my pal .
the flow was less strong and as he rubbed the side of his hand against the planking of the skiff
broken balcony .
good fellas .
short stories of ernest hemingway to have and have not green hills of africa winner take nothing death in the
a boy and preserved in alcohol , the alcohol sunken in the jars so the backs of some of the
i have some rum .
up the road a ways was the methodist church and down the road the other direction was the township school
" the door to the kitchen opened and the nigger came in .
i heard the door shut and my father put all the bags out on the ground .
roger looked up interestedly as he poured the milk into the cup .
” asked the extremaduran .
" yes , " sister cecila went on .
“it opens up after a while .
the detective was sending wires .
they were shouting in german and the driver and the officer with him must have seen the mines across the
" " tell me about it , " johnson said .
” “what did he put you afoot for ?
' ' three weeks and leave without seeing one .
' here they make a little of everything in the metallurgic line .
i could have seen them on that clear white sand .
” the warden from down state had gotten up when he heard them talking and had come into the kitchen
" " what ?
there were two rooms and they overlooked the bay , the park and the traffic passing on the boulevard .
wet with sweat and maria crying and saying , “oh , enrique .
" " how should i know .
" i was going great .
from the other window , if the bed was turned , you could see the town , with a little
” “let’s get drunk , ” bill said .
" just take it easy .
about jesus .
” “who are you to ask me questions ?
if he is a fisherman from the creases from the cord cuts .
" and what a miserable fish raw .
the tusks of the elephant weighed two hundred pounds apiece .
" did you tell him about it ?
” “i’ll take one , ” the down-state man said .
said , ' go on , boy , look through the rest of it .
" " let ' s have a look at them .
so that we could lean back against the trunks .
i ' m sure it won ' t come as a great shock to them .
“let’s try and sleep a while .
picture over , i put the camera into its case and settled , happily , with the darkness into the
” “you’ve eaten and now you want me for dessert .
i will make a partial refund and ship them out again .
elliot and the girl friend made conversation and they were all quite happy .
was , came a tall man in international brigade uniform with a blanket rolled over his shoulder and tied at
the woods and were gone .
' " " why must not a man marry ?
he swung it once and twice and again .
” “they’re visiting at charlevoix .
us to see them if they signalled .
" listen , jake , " he leaned forward on the bar .
member of the national geographic society , washington , d .
" he took hold of the line carefully so that it did not fit into any of the fresh line
“al , are you all right ?
one drink a day with my mother at tea .
it was still raining .
but i can ' t .
' she stood by it , and he looked at it from where he had looked at it last night
he held it in his left hand looking at it carefully then flicked the razor and cut it in two
maybe not as well as last year .
you see he was a bit over-liberated .
“perhaps .
that was one of the things he had saved to write , with , in the morning at breakfast ,
" there was a patch of dried blood on the bridge of his nose .
shouldn ' t i maybe distribute largess ?
she was short and commanding .
" " oh !
that’s all .
he had traded it for security , for comfort too , there was no denying that , and for what
” “you see that was one of the parts of it i’d looked forward to .
“i’m not going to carry you , ” i told him .
one was standing .
' please kiss me good night , kindly .
" how do you feel , jack , " morgan asks him .
charo and m ' cola both shook p .
" " i am a strange old man .
he knows everything about working in close too and he ' s getting away with a lot of stuff .
” “the nigger .
' ' put your hand in your right hand pocket and feel very rich , ' the girl said .
that boy’s no good , mr .
and m .
“sure , ” said fontan .
' ' he has your valpolicella in the big wicker fiascos of two litres and i have brought this decanter
" hazel and ethel , " alice said .
' but you know these locks .
” this fellow was just a punk , you understand , a nobody he’d never seen before , but from
i had forgotten about the uncleaned rifle .
tell your wife , with luck , there will be good eating ducks , fat as pigs with what they
i cannot keep him from hitting me but maybe i can get him .
after noting this , the colonel turned to the right and walked along the square to the paved street which
corrals at the edge of town .
" please open the wine , mademoiselle .
" " did they search for me ?
” “where are you going to put them ?
with them in his hand , he screwed the top back on the bottle .
retana was sitting forward looking at some papers .
the wind was at their backs and it blew the girl ' s hair forward .
“i feel absolutely different .
three times i ' ve had them cold and karl and the austrian and the wanderobo beat us .
" hello , darling .
“it’s a bit too hot at noon .
and for the lesser kudu that we knew lived in this desert bush , but the sun was high now
men and boys bought full-length colored pictures of him to remember him by , and lost the picture they had
“because really i don’t know anything at all .
it would be nice .
work , which nick did not .
as he jumped the bull’s tail rose and he charged .
“come on , ” i said , “or i’ll shoot .
he stood up and looked around .
he liked the round dutch collars above their sweaters .
we’ll have to be like the deer and only be out then .
went alone .
” zurito set down his glass .
” “i’m all right , ” he said .
tracker .
sure there is .
i memorized it once .
it is better to be lucky .
" here ' s the pub , " mike said .
” “yes , and go through the schwarzwald that way .
' not the moment for his ostrich plumes , ' pop said .
when they woke up we had lunch of cold sliced tenderloin , bread , and mustard , and a can
' ' are they hard to kill ?
in the firelight old karl looked a greyish , yellowish white in the face and he took off his stetson
' he brought one of the big german litre bottles and opened it .
the gun-bearer said when he fell off the bull was down .
” “stop it .
clearing .
he stood there moving his huge ears .
” “i don’t think it would work .
a room in a house like that and the tides and the boats going by .
i guess they went on and picked up the echelon .
“was i bad , wemedge ?
” “well , ” jack says , “i’m going to need a lot of luck with that boy .
it comes in bottles .
” “i mean they aren’t successful in america until they are over .
she was a christian scientist .
" i had read it before , but it seemed quite new .
john liked nick adams because he said he had original sin .
" take them one at a time , " my father said .
he ' s on the defensive now , manuel thought .
” “exactly , ” said johnson .
snake biting itself because its back was broken .
still i love the country very much .
“it’s all gone .
he stepped into the stream .
he wants to see you .
” “hombre , there are bodegas open all night long .
the sun had gone down while he had been in the fight with the sharks .
” she didn’t say anything .
much , or more , than he did .
i had the start on all of them and i knew i ought to get whatever there was .
' i could tell you how long two minutes and a half can be .
” “there and at the pavillion henri-quatre in st .
and we could not find it again .
' ' i understand , ' the _gran maestro_ said , and he looked at renata and his heart rolled
" that ' s true , " he said .
' goddam it .
” “yes , ” mr .
the houseboy who had been a contemporary and a friend of his son when they were both growing up came
[the wine-seller puts out a pitcher of wine , a size smaller than the last one .
i won ' t describe it since you can always read about it in a book by somebody who was
but i certainly should be trained and adjusted by this time not to give a much for nothing ; like
you really can , he said to himself .
' ' other people ' s orders , ' he said .
" not at all .
” “what do i owe you ?
' ' i ' m not sure it ' s honourable .
” “you’re like fontan .
he went over backwards and as i went up to him he jumped up and went off , staggering .
" the girl did not say anything .
jack was standing just a little way out from the ropes .
the towns he lived in were not towns his father knew .
so , of course , many nights i was where i could have a light and then i slept because
” i asked the extremaduran .
” “it’s nice of you .
” i said .
" " i say , barnes .
it was almost too dark to see his face .
“it’s five o’clock .
" good-bye , you chaps , " mike said .
so the cape swung out like a ballet dancer ' s skirt and wound the bull around himself like a
i could get him quite easily with a week ' s wages .
he lay on the floor on his face with his head bent down on his chest .
we had not yet shot anything that amounted to anything and he was not really my gun bearer .
" below the line where his ribs stopped were two raised white welts .
it ' s my fault , jake .
that showed how one could be hidden , i thought .
" " how long has he been married ?
but when he comes to feed , truly hungry , purple stripes show on his sides as on a marlin
leather case leaned against the fence .
then as the stream made a bend and we came out of the high grass to the bank i smelled
” she asked , looking at her profile again .
what did you do ?
' ' i ' d rather take the displaced engine boat if you don ' t mind .
first forty-nine” one trip across the tradesman’s return the denunciation the butterfly and the tank night before battle under the
you know how you hear things .
” roger put his arm around her and kissed her .
and out a gate on the other side .
' he asked her .
" " well , " says hogan .
' they got down into the gondola and there was the same magic , as always , of the light
' ' the biggest kind .
oh please .
blindy moved on it just the same .
and the plane trees and the cypresses .
“would you like me to bring you something ?
the doctor came up to the machine where i was sitting and said : “what did you like best to
' ' breakfast is worthless here , and i don ' t like the square when it is flooded .
" the crowd were yelling so you couldn ' t hear anything .
' ' you wind-blown son of a bitch , ' i said , then , using my fingers .
the tripe made a bag to carry the other delicacies in .
the sheets as full as any diaper with one vast , final , yellow cataract that flows and dribbles on
all we could get was nigger ' s clothes .
she liked it very much that he didn’t look like a blacksmith .
after they make their run they’ll sound and you can tighten up the drag and get it back .
everything else you just read in the papers .
“he is poorer than we , ” said the little mexican .
but no snapshots to-day , jack .
kate’s head dropped forward .
” “where did that crazy go ?
spagnolini made it but it’s not quite correct .
but i can make drinks .
papa and she played a lot of tennis with each other on the clay court down by the swimming pool
' ' there were three or four , ' karl said .
as i baited up , a trout shot up out of the white water into the falls and was carried
his curiosity had been gone for a long time .
there was not time to get in to the town .
i looked around the room .
except for the miracle of their horns there was no more excitement in shooting them than if they had been
he was the only shooter that the crowd became dead silent for .
they put a mystery in which is not there .
" here ?
if you don’t mind i wish you’d sort of pull out .
but i do not want to open it now by force .
and sink them in the channel .
' ' your stones .
too many times he had seen the horns , seen the bull’s wet muzzle , the ear twitching , then
" " many of the confrères present ?
the mosquito was on the canvas , over his head .
“i have to go to the annex .
" have you seen zurito ?
“i’d love to have heard it .
the timber on the far side and work along through the timber to get above the sable .
there ain’t anything to do .
it was warm , standing in front of her charcoal fire , and the chestnuts were warm afterward in your
" in the kitchen , " brett said .
water-jump .
' take plenty of beer , ' pop said .
he dominated the bull by making him realize he was unattainable , while he prepared him for the killing .
he drank the juice and cut the clam out , cutting close against the shell with the curved knife the
in the grass and the grain , beside the road , and in some places scattered over the road ,
" they ' re drunk , " she said .
“but the son of a bitch claims you can’t eat ’em .
' how do you feel , poor old mama ?
' listen carefully , daughter .
“we’re killing him for a friend .
dick was a big man .
he took two mannitol hexanitrate tablets ; since he had always been able to spit since _num_ , he could
' ' that ' s nice , ' she said .
' i ' ll take it , ' the colonel said and heard ettore ' s voice say , '
this i learn from the police who are very efficient if given time .
covering them over with beech branches .
and excited .
" " how do you like america ?
' start these anecdotes .
then a fellow boasted that he could not get along without girls , that he had to have them all
" give me the sword , " he shouted .
the two restaurants were side by side .
in his left hand he held a bottle of brandy .
" the cook asked .
" " i hate him , too , " she shivered .
we passed montoya on the stairs .
” “what the hell do you put it on the card for ?
“he seems to be going anyway , ” guy said .
' ' he and i used to drink hot kirsch in the winter time .
, and she had never known italians before , and finally wrote to the states that theirs had been only
there were trees along both banks .
" i ' ve always done just what i wanted .
they ' re enormous trout there .
” “i thought you were english .
" " naturally .
, ” i said .
' that would be swell .
what ' s his name , booth , barrett , mccullough--you know who i mean .
' ' i don ' t hate anything , daughter , ' the colonel said , and drank a little
and as they went out one of the policemen got his rifle across the door and shouted , “no one
" good , " said mr .
under the leather cover , which was worn and stained , it was engraved , on one side , to
" " don ' t you love me ?
in the lovely dark .
i can get transportation from there .
in the grass , all those papers their pockets had contained .
” “thank you , ” he said and got to his feet , swayed from side to side and then
” “you ain’t got any idea .
' ' everybody but kamau .
i ' m going with you , if you don ' t mind .
“you look pretty darn nice , ” he said .
m ' cola kept shaking his head , looking at the kudu and making the strange small noises .
he started back up the hill slope toward their camp .
a few kids came up when the bus stopped , and a customs officer for the town made all the
sometimes he turned to smile that toothed , long-jawed , lipless smile when he was called something particularly insulting ,
“you want me to go ?
" " you wouldn ' t take a cigar ?
” “no , ” said the girl , “i can’t .
" " you know , a funny thing .
not write them again because once i had them right i forgot them completely and each time i ever read
i was a fool not to go on and get the berries .
that bell goes off and it seems like it rings for a thousand years and then they come sweeping round
" " that wasn ' t in the lines .
there were no tracks now that i could see , only the probable line he would take , verified by
follow .
” “why don’t you go away then ?
[he winks at the wine-seller .
there was no underbrush in the island of pine trees .
finally the tallest one made a very strange face and emitted a sound like a dying pig .
it was a four-gallon jug and there was quite a little slopped back and forth in the bottom .
just badly hurt .
“it’s making me bald .
he’s much better .
there are many of them in our country .
" hogan said good-by to us and bruce , the nigger rubber , drove us down to the train in
" that ' s always just the stage i meet anybody .
“we were married in the eyes of god and i belong to him right now and always will and all
it’s a good thing she doesn’t know i got you that whiskey .
the other two were dignified .
' why don ' t you men ever discuss world topics ?
“don’t be too fancy .
had shown him where to make the first cut , well down on the legs , around the lower chest
i saw the roman coming and i pulled the zippers up on my boots , checked the cartridges in the
someone knocked at the door .
we have a very interesting mental life .
' when the whole outfit came up , we rolled the rhino into a sort of kneeling position and cut
you’d like to talk to him ?
but horse-dung bores you .
" " were they--were they---- " " were they what ?
to hell with people .
where we fail , where we would starve , he makes money .
” i asked the greek comrade .
" " certainly , " i said .
* * * * * i woke with a headache and the noise of the bands going by in the
then they were into the canal , slipping breakingly in from the last ice ; then , suddenly , light-borne
" " sure .
“you don’t have to be so bloody noble .
" " oh , we ' ve so much money now , " brett said .
” “i’d leave him alone , ” i said .
' ' you know as well as i , my colonel .
" " i may not be as strong as i think , " the old man said .
” “what kind of juice ?
religion is the opium of the poor .
notebook , “large and with enough horns to satisfy the cash customers , campagnero showed a tendency to cut into
" " damned well , " brett said .
move up it .
the next day his wife came in from tafalla to be with the body , and the day after there
of where the first had been .
” he wished now they had never taken it although it was the drink he loved best of almost any
" " ja .
the gypsy was very good with the banderillos .
chapter v they shot the six cabinet ministers at half-past six in the morning against the wall of a hospital
, split down one side , out of the tobacco pouch and bent them on the line about a foot
tell me very low and soft and put your bad hand in mine .
the waiter nodded his head .
” “hell , ” i said , “all that makes a difference is if they got dough .
" take this with water .
” “killem peters .
that too would have made a good etching for goya , the visit with the flashlight , i mean .
” bill stood up .
you are a bitch .
“and they were very nice .
big mistake to have come to vienna .
but don ' t get rough with me .
ahead the road came out of the forest and went along the shoulder of the ridge of hills .
i think i begin to understand .
what if nobody saw the punch ?
" you ' ll not fish without eating while i ' m alive .
he handed it to me and i took it up to where eddy was at the wheel and put on
when i had used them all i had to find more worms , and sometimes it was very difficult digging
we all went in the truck .
“did i know him ?
he emptied the can of apricots out into a tin cup .
“you can’t describe it .
' then we had a long talk about sable .
b .
“we will drink champagne .
there’s a co-pilot that’s a gunner too and i’m pretty sure i got him too .
" " of course i will .
those people in the first rows of seats who knew what they were watching .
” “darling , you don’t know how marvellous it is to see you feeling better .
" " i should have asked , you know .
stick .
we dispute about nothing .
i put my hand on his shoulder .
smell .
twist nor break .
ice , picked up the ducks .
i started off walking with brett , but robert cohn came up and joined her on the other side .
“that’s good , ” she said .
he leaned forward on the table to read and puffed at his pipe .
' so we fought .
the dog , who had been shivering at the colonel ' s feet , pawed his way over the gunwale
bank , the deep holes and the clear shallow stretches , sometimes catching trout and sometimes losing them .
down in the long grass .
" what will he do ?
" c ' est un bon pays pour la chasse , " fontan said .
“knock on the wood .
now it was starting to rain and the locusts were no longer flying .
' too tired .
” johnny said .
he ' s a beauty .
” “he is commanding the battalion .
” “i don’t see it , ” said bill .
three of them would kill him for them .
“you got to take a cure , billy , ” mr .
through the trees .
when he retired the legend grew up about how his bull-fighting had been , and when he came out of
” “i’ve been there .
” “i am not joking , ” said the manager .
' they went up the worn stone steps and walked across the gravel and sat on a bench under the
and afterward they come back and say they want to come again and have another party the next saturday ,
it was strange under the arc-light .
they knew they had the run back home ahead of them .
so he tells her he’s tired , and goes to bed , and when she goes to the show he
' let us ask ettore .
' she looked at him from the portrait and said nothing .
do not know where either one is buried even .
he profiled close to the bull , crossed the muleta in front of his body and charged .
” no other tunes were as satisfactory , mr .
they come out from town and told me the fellow i ' d had to cut was all right except
“you’re a dirty liar , ” she said in that low voice .
the adjutant looked after him and smiled .
" " well , " i said , " you ' re not right .
mail_ and a half-bottle of evian water .
” he told her about it as well as he could within the limitations of his knowledge and his information
” “are they out of season , too ?
' ' i go back so damn far back that it isn ' t funny .
but that is the thing i wish for now .
but he kept on toward the north to hit the river as far upstream as he could go in one
" come here .
pinin came into the room .
up and drop down as he went up and down the billowing khuds .
“marsala , maybe .
" the doctor tossed the saucer full of iodine in his face .
turner came up to william campbell ' s room at noon william campbell was sleeping and as mr .
but he had to go out to his field .
were cattle grazing back in the trees .
i had never seen the flagpoles before , nor the front of the theatre .
tell you some more at lunch .
“f— yourself , ” he said .
” “you bet !
i will just whisper it in his ear as though i were making a rendezvous , as they did in
no you don’t wish you hadn’t been with the kids .
“look , littless .
the most sinister .
the bartender didn’t answer him .
take the case of bernard shaw .
” “roger .
if it had not been she it would have been another .
about the new house i remember how my mother was always cleaning things out and making a good clearance .
' he was teasing rough in his turn ; throwing in the counter-attack without even thinking .
” “is he out of his head ?
then she said mais ça alors .
some frankie .
he fought under the cork-oak trees and he fought in the good pasture by the river .
he started to give cries when they shoot him and he is giving cries ever since .
" " let ' s have a drink , then .
“no !
do you like it here ?
do it and you will do it .
“on the floor .
not now when things were getting good again .
dick left the gate open .
i ' d be a good wife .
hogan was out in the gym in the barn .
i’ve never been able to afford it .
that cayetano , he’s a bad one .
there were a few men sitting at tables against the wall .
they shot him in the back .
maybe the eskimo was a fine language .
” asked wilson quietly .
" joe garner laughed .
the barman looked at him but did not answer .
and all seas .
the next morning at five o ' clock the race resumed with the last lap , san sebastian-bilbao .
they had drifted up onto the beach and if nothing were done about them sooner or later the crew of
and crossed the bear river and went through a cut and there were only the ties and the rails running
" montoya politely disbelieved .
the wind was blowing around .
“and i’ll have to send a truck off to the lake to wireless for a plane to take the three
had been made for the servants .
it is a fine place .
open up the ballast tanks so she’d lay solid .
on the left , where the meadow ended and the woods began , a great elm tree was uprooted .
see that quick rise of the unbelievable cloud and then the slow settling .
chapter _num_ that winter robert cohn went over to america with his novel , and it was accepted by a
it was such a sharp , aching , hurting feeling that she thought she couldn’t stand it .
“want to take my glasses ?
" i must when i go back .
very good .
to the right , below the curve of the ridge , i could see the entrance to the cave where
so we act on that .
“well , then , we’ll have to get some convenient place in america .
as we started along the road he turned and walked back toward the inn .
" " yes , that ' s the way it ' s done in the very best families .
just a little pity .
" " i know it .
the air .
' ' why is he not out with you ?
” “we can’t fish then , ” said the young gentleman , and unjointed the rod , reeling the line
it was a funny name .
" guy said .
“you lay off that bottle .
if they are under-trained , it is my fault .
' ' it ' s a beautiful view .
that ' s the way the money was bet in the garden .
while .
” “what would you like , sir ?
ever seen and she never uses them for anything except to look at you honestly and straight .
rose-pink of the flamingoes .
“the razor’s no defense .
his wife was not in the other cot in the tent .
” she shook her head at him .
” “it’s a fine town , ” the little man next to the window said .
in , ' i said .
bail them out as you go .
i was way out toward the quicksands and i didn ' t find anything so i went on .
" " copiously .
most of the men sat against the wall smoking , empty coffee-cups and liqueur-glasses before them on the tables .
' ' breakfast was served , or offered up , by the cook .
i truly did .
, people from the censorship , which was then in the telephone building across the street , and various unknown
you are an expatriate , see ?
' ' let ' s get back , eat , break camp , and get down there to-night .
the mayonnaise rather stiff .
" he asked the cramped hand that was almost as stiff as rigor mortis .
harris lifted his glass .
" " oh , isn ' t he lovely , " brett said .
i felt a son of a bitch to have hit him and not killed him .
” “it is medicine .
' ' no , wes .
" that kid won ' t stay in this night stuff long , " retana ' s man said to
" " my god , nous avons chanté .
at the foot of the bed , looking very strangely .
do we want big men—or do we want them cultured ?
, publicly and legally through due process of law , of having deprived him of his judgment through her extraordinary
" anything of that sort should be done at night .
" " pick up with his old girl , probably .
there was a field of buckwheat on the hill .
i had only sipped my brandy and soda .
the steel column it slid up and down on was bent and there were several marble stairs in the six
been to see him since he had been brought in .
' little woman ' s giving us compliments , ' pop said .
his trousers clung tight to his legs .
” “we want two anis del toro .
” “of course i want you , darling .
began to yell “kzar” as though they were crazy .
“did you shoot it , francis ?
i ought to have my nails done and my hair washed .
" is lady ashley here ?
and told her .
he washed the trout in the stream .
i had made too many stalks on big horn sheep only to find them fed away and out of sight
i have come twelve kilometers now and i think now i can go no further .
no end and no beginning .
trees that crossed the plain toward the north .
” “he does a little of everything .
the line came taut and i saw he was headed inshore again and i could see he was turning .
of course , if you went in there you ' d probably detach one of them from the herd ,
it would have saved you a lot of trouble .
” “the hell you were .
' we ' ll keep him for a caller or to turn loose in the spring .
” “can you remember the safari leaving ?
“no , ” blindy said .
" " don ' t drink it fast that way .
of a good god-damn about things than almost anybody you ' ll ever meet .
" i must tire you .
" " the boy won ' t .
' s village by the road .
washed , took off my wet clothes and feeling in the dark in my rucksack found a pair of pyjamas
been withered almost as small as the major’s , before it had taken a machine course , and after was
just a little sleepy .
" he said , offering the match to retana .
i went in an amateur fight and i was so afraid i couldn’t keep from running .
” “didn’t you see anybody at all ?
“they’re three old bulls , ” wilson said .
they might have included found its way into the novel .
isn’t again a nice word ?
have you got any mechanic’s soap ?
who the hell had said that and where ?
” “which do you like best ?
fontan looked very old , and madame fontan looked sad .
” it was evening now and he had been asleep .
" " all right , " jack said .
a depth of four or five fathoms as the load spreads across the surface , the sinkable part going down
he laid down the booklet .
' ' oui , ' il dit .
" when they come again i locked the door .
this time it was no protest .
“be soft , pinin , ” the adjutant said to him .
when we leave town we ' ll drive north to st .
' ' you haven ' t a picture of then , have you ?
from the town .
so don ' t be gloomy , boy , or man , or colonel , or busted general .
“jack !
" come on , " she whispered throatily .
liz started to cry .
there was the meadow , the river and the swamp .
he could not hit a horse if he were holding the stirrup .
that was in the earliest days , the colonel thought .
i ' m mad about the romero boy .
pulled up over her in the night .
slip from the chaplain .
skinner to handle them properly .
this lick had an impossible approach .
oh , it isn’t right .
" we stood in the sunlight .
“i hope i’ll be better tomorrow .
i worked like a horse coming out here .
" what ' s he afraid of the bull for ?
then it seemed as though there was enough to write without it .
toto !
i never had anything wrong with my heel except the time the sting ray stung it when i stepped on
, carefully starting the balloons with sticks , standing above the heads of the crowd to launch the balloons off
” he took an envelope out of his leather coat and laid it on the table .
him and a stupid look on his potato face talking about the dada movement with a roumanian who said his
she was happy .
i would like to be beautiful for you if i could and if i could be beautiful .
" but you have the same name , " mrs .
was lying on a sort of litter .
they had stopped the car and spoken to the indian but he did not understand english and grinned and the
don ' t have scenes with your young ladies .
” “leave me alone , i tell you .
it and come up with an uppercut that got walcott’s nose with the heel of the glove .
then he looked at the girl , to see that she was sleeping well enough so even his thoughts would
difference to my old man , if he won he wasn’t ever excited or anything , and now it was
don manuel orquito , the pirotecnico of esta ciudad .
much of what i say is unjust .
—finca vigía ed .
“wonder where he got the knife ?
the finest kind .
i went out the harbor and past the morro and put her on the course for key west ; due
discounted them in advance when he had picked the bulls out for their safety , getting out of a motor
our mother will think we’re fugitives from justice steeped in sin and iniquity .
" then later : " do you feel better , darling ?
i almost loosed off at it before i saw it was a cow .
" " is that why he drinks ?
” “it’s too old .
” “they ought to have hamburgers and maybe barbecue .
somebody threw an empty champagne-bottle from close range .
we’ve given him time , i think .
” andré had brought the twenty-two-calibre rifle out from the cupboard and was holding it in his hands under the
” “we don’t charge too much money .
, and about something funny brett told me about him , and as all the time i was kneeling with
" the anis del mono man wiped his mouth and stood up .
my big fish must be somewhere .
” “they’re good , ” roger said .
bill drew away .
" the old man said .
" alice looked at her and then at us and her face lost that hurt look and she smiled and
he’s not coming .
he knew it very well .
_num_ d soldier—show me a guy that doesn’t want to come down off the cross .
" " you ' re right , " brett said .
but there must be pockets like this all over , that no one knows of , that the cars pass
john and mr .
" " what didn ' t you like about them ?
for civilization , and perhaps would have been better avoided .
" " they ' re packed .
he had propped open the slit that dishes passed through into the kitchen with a catsup bottle .
i had been getting something for nothing .
' the skinner was the only gent in the outfit .
manuel , lying on the ground , kicked at the bull’s muzzle with his slippered feet .
we shot them .
i don’t care who you steal from .
my god , i knew he’d had the bottle .
what should i say ?
m ' cola and i and the husband started to work our way to the edge of the timber ;
' ' by god if you ' re not , ' pop said .
there was nobody inside .
" " got many antiquities ?
there was a canvas water bag and a ground cloth to use as a tent .
' ' about this afternoon , ' he says and grins , making wrinkles in the caked dust on his
he just died a little while ago .
" " i can ' t .
" " that ' s my fault .
but farther on we came on some droppings in the rocks with blood in them and then for a while
” upstairs in the room above mine , manolita and the englishman were making quite a lot of noise .
“gentlemen , ” bill said , “i give you chesterton and walpole .
it’s wonderful to have such an intelligent husband .
everything he has is good .
he fell forward and bugs dropped the cloth-wrapped blackjack on the grass .
he ' s about the most interesting man i know .
” “that was a fine way to look at it , ” the cook said .
who gave you a right to know a girl like that ?
he also bought some razor blades , a tube of mentholated shaving cream , some dentyne chewing gum , a
“prohibition’s over .
i remember wondering if the bastard had talked all night .
but i believe that this one could hold the pace and stay the course .
morning to make that trip down to the studio .
' ' he has a chance to get a leopard on that rhino carcass this evening , too , or
you can ' t fish and not eat .
then i heard them talking about me .
” “but how will they know it is an american uniform ?
for him .
we came up the hill to the farmhouse .
he has no regard for those who must work .
" still i would like to hear you talk some time .
then you beg .
at him from under a canvas hat .
he was a very serious coffee drinker .
' ' if it were true , what difference would it make ?
" " he spends a lot of time there .
he was waking up now although it was still hard for him to leave his sleep .
the weather is cloudy and the place is _num_ .
“campari and gordon’s with ice .
” “twice in the abdomen .
' ' just as much as i like to be in the prado .
and who could not comprehend , or were barred by their patriotism from interest in , any german machine gunners
” “you might look and see what there is advertised in the classified in the paper and i’ll get some
' ' good night , ' i said .
in spain you could not tell about anything .
” “oh , he’s going to die , i’m afraid .
" " probably he owes them money " i said .
into rations and passed them out .
and walked down into the village , feeling hollow and hungry and happy , smelling the early morning smells and
we all three went back to the hotel .
she went right down and prayed for him .
; returned the stares of the adjutant , the signallers and the two runners by the door and put on
' if he lived in kudu country , he could .
not when you lose it that way .
he owed me over six hundred pesos and he wouldn ' t pay me .
the shade of the trees .
" " i ' m just start ing .
all i can tell you is that mr .
” “what do you want to do now ?
the next morning we hunted and saw nothing and the next evening the same .
you beat-up old bastard .
it’s just business .
wanderobo pointed out .
three twenty-five this afternoon .
but he had never written a line of that , nor of that cold , bright christmas day with the
it ' s fine .
and this certainly was not the month to hit it in .
" it blows like hell up here , " bill said .
he tapped on the table with his fork .
nor if the fish were in the skiff , with all dignity gone , there would be no question either
there it is .
red said he must remember the word .
” “of course you know .
command-giving , i brought the handle of the shovel , with manifest un-intention , up hard into his belly and
across from us , at another table , sat a sailor .
" " he stays up because he likes it .
who’s going to keep you from killing him then ?
' you know that .
there must have been some scenes inside all right because you know she settled fast .
” “if i live long enough the luck will change .
i ' m going down and pray for him now .
when i came on board i had just forty cents left .
somebody might overhear you and think we were with you .
“let me do it , ” i said .
” he said at the door .
“i’m not a doctor , ” my father said .
he wished he could see it .
and liking , and making liking and happiness , and joking and making people not afraid .
off and writing for a week , or writing half the day , or every other day , and get
“but they must have found the basket and the dishes by now .
walcott came over .
toward them .
bridge of the porte de saint cloud .
along with a number of muratti cigarette-stubs , shoved far back in the drawer of the bed-table that stood beside
” “it will be along , ” roger said .
” “do you think you’ll ever make money writing ?
the editorials and the sport page and sends them to me .
" " summit .
" " what makes you think so ?
tracking , aided by every one but the old man who staggered along with the sable skull and head skin
knowing they could not hold it when they took it .
the funny thing is he ' s nice , too .
away and looked up at the crowd on the walls , his crest of muscle rising .
” “i can’t either , ” he said .
the river was dark and a bateau mouche went by , all bright with lights , going fast and quiet
" can ' t we maybe stop talking ?
“the boy has it , ” wilson told her .
" he looked up at the sky and then out to his fish .
' ' we ' ll send the lorry to haul that sportsman into handeni .
from the sunken road and from the group of farm houses , encountered no resistance in the town , and
“pa , can i go to the show ?
and then following him across the plain until almost noon in that heat until i got within range and killed
you can ' t do it .
“have you any more wine to spare ?
it was very deep and very impressive .
with the crowd of those condemned to early rising .
but that will be good to take him in with .
during this time , it was late summer , he was sleeping late in bed , getting up to walk
“but i am drunk , ” said baldy .
“i like it here , ” said al .
they didn ' t know we didn ' t want them , but we didn ' t have nothing to
“don’t be silly , margot , ” her husband said .
' ' did you know him ?
is the best of all the year .
but that five per cent when you are wrong can certainly be something .
i do not have to go yet and we can have a while .
the coffee-boy was gone .
" right you are , sir .
the restaurant was run by an anarchist syndicate and they sold you wine that was all stamped with the label
' ' whatever that means , ' she interrupted .
we came out on a cross-street that led to the paseo de sarasate .
" " you aren ' t sore i asked you ?
“in a day coach , ” the man opposite us said .
hm , the wife .
bacuranao is a cove where there used to be a big dock for loading sand .
you could feel the heat outside through the window .
the tusks were stained with dried blood and he scraped some off with his thumbnail like a dried piece of
it sounded exactly as the command to fire should sound or the announcement of a hit .
but the waiter stood , shaking his head .
“the ginger ale’s gone , ” one of the men said .
he took a bearing on the tree and then came out onto the hillside and walked down to the lean-to
people went to the corrida to see belmonte , to be given tragic sensations , and perhaps to see the
” so we had a gin and tonic and i felt very badly to have broken him and i felt
" all you punks stink .
he slept for two hours until the morning light woke him .
he lay against the worn wood of the bow and rested all that he could .
there couldn’t be more simply beautiful birds .
how simple it would be if i could make the line fast , he thought .
” “i wouldn’t want to be that old .
about seven-thirty we had dinner and watched the country through the open window in the diner .
he wished he could draw her face and he watched the way her long lashes lay on her cheeks .
, and across country to camp .
” then he called to the attendant who ran the machines .
in that hospital a radio did not work very well until it was dusk .
hirsch , " the woman said .
and “the faithful bull , ” which were published by holiday in _num_ and are reprinted here .
” “tell that hired girl to come out here .
” to kid me on account i had told him about the girl that day at the next table .
i wish i could show him what sort of man i am .
position that we may view a portrait .
corners of his eyes , nor that his broken nose was like a gladiator ' s in the oldest statues
” “as you want , hombre .
was it too far to get the clouds of smoke and dirt that thundered up on the hill crest as
read some for me .
but if i had , and could have lashed it to an oar butt , what a weapon .
" what is it men feel about quiet ?
' ask her to have a drink with us here before you carry her off to that corner table .
' ' you sound like dante , ' she said sleepily .
the detective saw the blood under the door .
_num_ st roman soldier—you see me slip the old spear into him ?
the flatness of the valley , through cultivated patches of green corn , bananas , and trees i did not
" i feel confident today .
and the head jerked , he shot again at the wide nostrils and saw the horns jolt again and fragments
” “we better go down and see packard .
“better than politics .
" the signor takes a cold bath every morning .
but i think i would rather have him attend you if it was the old days .
moi , j’aime les pommes de terre , le saucisson , et la bière .
we ' re going to festa the english .
the shark swung over and the old man saw his eye was not alive and then he swung over once
now he looked at the many small crustaceans , the razor-edge clams you only should eat raw if you had
and what about some brother officer of mine who split with him ?
” he picked up the razor in his right hand , gave it a little flip and the blade came
” “good-bye , ” she said and kissed him .
that was the year they both bought seminole shirts at the trading post at everglades and wore them in the
" save us a table for three , " i said to the german .
" " so long , " jack said .
i love it now but i just can’t think about it .
" " don ' t go .
“there are officers from the fort .
i never spoke to him again until this year .
” “tell him to come in .
i saw he was watching brett .
the _gran maestro_ could tell him the address of the painter and he could visit the picturesque studio .
but this lion , that we love because he was so good , had wings on his back .
“always .
” his father got up from the table and went out the kitchen screen door .
' ' _ciao_ , my colonel .
with the rest of the gang from maisons and i guess that’s one of the busiest parts of the town
do not think about sin .
did i not .
it ' s not that they are picturesque .
i have seen enough fighting for one night .
' take us to the gritti .
indians ?
“i’m about fed up with this kind of fishing .
after he was fifteen he had shared nothing with him .
the chair with two soiled napkins holding the half of each knife , wrapping them tight and then knotting them
of his eyes and his hair all faded in the sun .
" all right , if you want to go , " jack says .
it was a freak head , heavy and ugly .
you .
" " only perch .
i mean this sort of good .
coming without being married and she’s touchy .
" chicken .
artillery on mount valerien , and that tanks were roaming the streets .
" pinin was the major ' s orderly .
because i would want to look out the window early in the morning .
he was very shy and quite young and the train men passed him on from one crew to another .
“it’s not natural with me .
' the colonel asked , looking at the mis-shapen hand with distaste and remembering the two times that had made
" look after this , " he said .
" they haven ' t got a cure for anything .
” several soldiers nodded .
" speak german , not dialect .
the wet grass and bracken .
to hell with this operating-table .
“you get tired of pike right away .
' simba , simba , faro , nyati , tendalla , tendalla !
' my friend ?
then he knew it solidly , because he had stopped under a light , in order that they might see
front with forest beyond it , and drank their just-cool lime drinks and avoided one another’s eyes while the boys
” “where did you leave your bicycle ?
he seemed to have a hatred for me at the start .
' ' is everything that rigid ?
wheeler that’s right .
she don’t cook .
dun report .
" oh , yes , sir .
somehow it was taken for granted that an american could not have aficion .
there is a picture which shows him among his fraternity brothers , all of them wearing exactly the same height
' but it was hardly the method of dante .
they were better than fresh apricots .
" " i have to work in the morning , " i said .
it was a big two hundred thousand franc race with seven entries and kzar a big favorite .
his proposal was that everyone should bring their own liquor there and be able to enjoy it in the warmth
” he moved ahead of his sister , holding the rifle in one hand , keeping a little way away
or went out spearing fish in the bay with a jacklight with d .
" i will .
" how can i beat him ?
a wife wasn ' t what he needed .
through the head by a sniper .
“i come right back .
' ' i can ' t accept it .
these were wooded and there were clouds coming down from them .
for forty minutes but try and let him stay .
remember the woods were god ' s first temples .
it exploded with a jumping roar and you could hear the fragments whang against the armor .
" listen , " doc fischer said and he told the boy certain things .
' ' missouri .
but he could not and it stayed at the hardness and water-drop shivering that preceded breaking .
into babati and then down to kondoa and strike across country toward handeni and the coast .
“that’s up to you .
“if he’s all that what’s he doing in key west ?
they ' ve never been on time anywhere .
” “i know you will , sweet .
" they all three went up to the wagon restaurant .
' ' no bloody fear , ' said pop .
” “you can’t feel that way all of the time .
" going on a party ?
' from corps , ' he translated , unlovingly , _cuerpo d ' armata_ , ' they tell you what
” “i don’t want to wait for no boat .
the best sky was in italy and spain and northern michigan in the fall and in the fall in the
he writes .
" bill got mike started on something else than cohn .
it was a big meal for france but it seemed very carefully apportioned after spain .
heat of the engine , hat low over the eyes against the sun , watching the road , the people
he was a captain then and i was an acting captain ; really a sub-lieutenant .
for a long time he had been fresher and in better shape than the two men and impatient with their
" lie down , old man , and i will bring you your clean shirt .
' ' then what is a comfort station ?
' ' where did you read him ?
” “this forest would be a bad place for giants .
“so it seemed normal i might bore you .
all the insides and the gills and tongue came out in one piece .
' so we automatically could not have fought then .
i had her watch how romero took the bull away from a fallen horse with his cape , and how
the rod bent in jerks , the trout pumping against the current .
the new highway was wide now and ran far and clear ahead through the forest of pines that were tapped
i had never had despair before , true despair , nor have i ever had it since .
" gentlemen , " i said .
other side of the plaza .
" " i am very glad to see you , nicolo .
gee , i remember the funny people that used to go by .
for just a moment the fish turned a little on his side .
and tall , in their brown skin garments , their clubbed pig-tails hanging , their faces stained a red-brown ,
he looked at the girl , since they were alone now , and he said , ' how are you
he was climbing down from the bus .
' everyone in camp was out to watch us go .
he lay in the stern in the sun , compact and bullet shaped , his big , unintelligent eyes staring
it comes in bed to most people , i know , like love ' s opposite number .
" " i went out fishing in the morning .
' ' i ' ll never teach you .
” “you’d have a hell of a time explaining that to these sport writers though , ” hogan said .
' ' i ' m fine .
the room smelled very bad .
“do you remember what we came to this country for ?
what she is going through is called being in labor .
” “what were they doing ?
" " i can hear you , all right , " al said from the kitchen .
his dressing-gown , and then he had his arms around my shoulders and said , ' you god damned bull
" who gave this to you ?
i knew i could do that and that the shot would kill him but how long would it take ?
" " you ' re not .
[the third roman soldier drinks the cup down .
we were back again in front of the hotel .
” johnson screwed the drag down and came back on the rod .
“be a man , my son , ” said one priest .
had first grown tall and close .
" it ain ' t crooked .
he had not had time in his life to lose any of them , nor even , at the end
" i started to say , but i stopped .
and i know i cannot keep it if i eat it since my face was in it .
' it was , indeed .
' ' yes , but i ' m dignified with him .
” “doesn’t that one smell wonderful ?
" " i don ' t need it , jack , " i said .
colonel had enjoyed it .
send your mind adventuring .
eddy put the two big teasers out and the nigger had baits on three rods .
then dive in the weeds and crawl .
far end .
they were both dark and bushy-headed .
' he did not look like himself and i thought he must be ill .
” “his pants looked mighty like billy .
" be careful of my sheet , " william campbell said .
then he dove suddenly and the old man saw flying fish spurt out of the water and sail desperately over
“no , ” said max .
rhino whose smaller horn was longer than our big one , this huge , tear-eyed marvel of a rhino ,
” “do we have to hear it ?
' ' you must have missed him , ' the girl said .
down in agreement .
‘who’s your old man ?
they made the left turn and came along the canal where the fishing boats tied up , and the colonel
” “please tell me .
' we made a very wide circle and i sent the brother and the husband out in another circle .
" " the hell you were .
' ' you ' re nice to take it that way .
“that son of a bitch !
and he ' s beautiful .
maera felt everything getting larger and larger and then smaller and smaller .
“that’s right , ” he said , and wouldn’t look me in the eye .
” “you were thinking .
" " he ' s wonderful , " brett said .
“can’t you hear ?
“look at him with the wings on his back , ” they would say and then they would all roar
but i never was anybody ' s sorrow .
he had very long eyelashes and his eye was the most alive thing david had ever seen .
“he never even tried to make a break .
i had stopped at the montoya for several years .
" sure , " i said .
we came onto the rue du pot de fer and followed it along until it brought us to the rigid
he did not care anything about swimming , only to dive and be underwater .
very delicately between his fingers .
they walked or trotted on into the bull-ring .
his coat was wet too .
damu !
” “is it a virgin stream ?
“old james , ” the other client said .
" santiago , " the boy said .
“this one , ” said the smallest mexican , “is very strong against religion .
" " is this all we ' ve got ?
so now when he went into kill , and it was seldom , he could not look at the horns
“that kike !
and at her neck .
anybody would tell who shot them .
“it’s just a question of selling something or other to get hold of it .
they walked holding close and hard in their sorrow and their happiness .
" i don ' t remember what it was about , but it was a lovely dream .
had been jack-snipe on the prairie , or when he saw shocks of corn , or when he saw a
” retana saw him looking at the stuffed bull’s head .
it , only when getting it was necessary to his being first in his trade , and i saw he
was stopped just inside the door because she had no hat , so we went out again and along the
he was skipping up and down in front of us , forward and back , crossing his arms every third
when i put my hand on his forehead i knew he had a fever .
” “the man in the dead-house” “get out of here .
big motor-cars from biarritz and san sebastian kept driving up and parking around the square .
" manuel asked , looking up at zurito across the table .
come inside .
the group of friends he made there , including the indians who lived nearby , are doubtless represented in various
tried to walk as slowly as i could and put a handkerchief inside the sweatband of my hat to keep
i ' d look around and see you and i would shoot the high ducks well , to show off
et , my god , ils sont sales , les polacks .
" i ' ll see you to-morrow night , " manuel said .
“you wouldn’t like the way i write .
he was dressed in the same sort of safari clothes that wilson wore except that his were new , he
out there on the heap of ashes and no one ever touched them .
that’s the way the money was bet in the garden .
to keep regularly employed for a long time .
" " sometimes he comes here .
" george asked .
' ' you will get it all at harry ' s except the part you figure in .
" manuel looked down at his glass .
once we get to the gulf side this breeze will be a sea breeze instead of a land breeze and
you know i never saw that happen before in my life .
he set down two side-dishes of fried potatoes and closed the wicket into the kitchen .
they had found the trail of the old bull finally and when it turned off onto a smaller elephant road
braddocks asked .
" " sure , you could marry anybody .
they would kill me and they would kill kibo if we had ivory , he had thought , and known
i can ' t sleep .
” krebs felt sick and vaguely nauseated .
' there ' s nothing holding us up and i guarantee they won ' t stop at either of those
by ; sizing up each clearing as to feed and cover and figuring where you would find a covey and
“you know i never knew you were drunk until you started talking coming back in the camions .
" " awful .
” “true .
still , i suppose that is young for a great writer .
skyline of the other churches .
i carried a leafy branch and swished away at the back of my neck as we walked and we hunted
it seemed like a hell of a joke .
” “skip it , ” al said to him .
the more people the less game you ' ll see .
" " he has too , pa , " frank said .
every one took a drink , tipping the wine-skin at arm ' s length .
the elephant was his hero now as his father had been for a long time and he had thought ,
" now i will never be sad .
i did not go where they have the wild ducks .
' do you know anything particular we should be cheerful about ?
at the end was a gate and a man took the tickets .
” “it’s true , ” claude said .
below the water was smooth and black .
crawling up , we saw a large rhino and a small one standing chest deep in brush , facing us
” “i’d stop her all right .
" rotten luck for the tailor , " he said .
that and baseball .
bull’s shoulder , leaning far in over the bull’s horns and pivoting on the two upright sticks , his legs
wilson spoke to the older gun-bearer , who wore a canteen on his belt , and the man unbuckled it
" " alive and with the leg paralyzed .
“i have terrific presentiments about things sometimes .
' yes , ' m ' cola agreed .
it is a sort of _solitaire ambulante_ and what you win is the happiness of your eye and heart .
“and we could have everything and every day we make it more impossible .
she had taken off her hat and put it on the table .
he’s out with the gun .
i can almost hear it and then it is quite gone .
johnson , ” he said , “i guess i better finish my nap .
three times .
he ' s got the car just up the street .
' ' do it , please .
" where would you like to go ?
at first we wanted to laugh , and paco started to smile .
ears , whirring into a size you have never seen them in the air as they pass , the only
though none of it is dull , the colonel thought .
" well , he ' s always been fine to me .
you remember when they ordered us not to come in to take off any more ?
" we ' re going , " brett said .
he dipped down and then as he came slowly up to the crest of the bridge he turned and made
" i ' ve been asleep .
” “come on , evans , ” the down-state man said .
” “what did you get ?
then the roman had his arms around my neck and m ' cola was shouting in a strange high sing-song
" sure , " jack says , " he ain ' t going to last long .
cohn was crying .
gun .
you keep her going out no matter what happens .
tell me , robert .
” “he is fascist ?
he loved the mountains in the autumn .
the smug one , complacently , ' look at them ' .
" manuel lay back .
' ' probably , ' the girl said .
it was one of the white men .
' ' over there behind that tree .
' ' look , daughter .
“i’m not pic-ing .
it’ll sink and they’ll grapple it when they pick up the load , he thought .
try one .
like young girl painting .
“no , ” jack says .
call on the telephone ?
“you stink yourself , ” the bartender said .
if it rained heavily on the road , we would never get out to the coast that season .
but there was no rhino .
” macomber asked his wife .
it looks quite differently now , he thought .
only i have like buzzing noises all the time in the head .
" " what was it about being in trouble ?
“good boy , ” my father said .
the _gran maestro_ left and the colonel said , ' what ' s the matter , daughter ?
other new ones will come in .
” “what’s the matter , then ?
not a one .
you ' re fast enough so you can take your time , remember .
' ' n ' dio , ' said m ' cola , counting them over himself .
“a log like that will bum all night .
“the express is an hour late , sir .
” “i don’t like to substitute , ” manuel said .
here she came now .
through his full belly , and weakening with the wound through his lungs that brought a thin foamy red to
” “will the schooner come to tortugas to get them ?
' do you remember when it cost thirty centesimi the litre ?
but they had told him about it .
the men washed up and waited in the front room for supper .
] what’s the matter with you ?
he resumed the pantomime of b ' wana simba and another character known as b ' wana doktor and the
" at that time he was spending all kinds of money around women trying to make himself seem a man
i could see them throw the dust .
still , they aren ' t bananas .
" " but you speak german ?
you move a little to the left , max .
andy burnett .
it was impossible as well as forbidden .
' ' i wish we could be married and have five sons , ' the colonel said .
very close and whammed it in all the time they attacked and until they breached us .
" " yes , " said para gently .
he wonders if you would like to shoot a couple of kongoni or an eland .
” “i’ll get it , ” she said .
“look , ” he said to macomber , and pointed .
dijon is only four and a half hours from paris and there is a diner on the train .
, ' pop said to p .
through the glasses i saw belmonte speak to romero .
contains water .
" " do you understand dialect ?
" now , " he said , " i want to take it slow and easy .
" " you agree , gentlemen ?
has kept his mouth tight shut .
' he said putting his hand to his head .
nick didn’t look at it .
that he has ever rode .
but what can a man do against them in the dark without a weapon ?
god , and every officer that ever wore one , knows they are not water-proof and who made the money
other pine .
" " could we try it ?
“you know what her mother was like !
bring him in now and make him fast and get the noose around his tail and another around his middle
” “where to ?
“that doesn’t follow .
one of those _sad_ americans ?
crouching so he was almost sitting back on his skis , trying to keep the center of gravity low ,
remember it ' s me you get into trouble .
this was a mistake .
” she came out to the fence at the far corner where nick was making up his pack beyond the
we have some credit to exhaust .
but they did not show it and they spoke politely about the current and the depths they had drifted their
what are you doing in that uniform ?
' ' fifty-two .
' i ' ll admit that .
” “it might , ” nick said .
" " sure , " i said .
but for paco , the youngest of the three waiters who served at table , the only ones who really
h .
” “who gave it to you ?
” “well , ” he said , “it don’t do you any good and i suppose you get so you
" " mangez !
new york was wonderful .
i know now and for keeps and for always .
by , we felt held together by there being something that had happened that they , the people who disliked
i admire their wives , for the valiant efforts they make to transport keokuk to venice , and their children
” “i remember about it .
he had a chance to behave so well .
” “you ought to buck florida politics some time and see what happens .
" he was crying .
why can’t you let me sleep ?
when his father and he had returned with the packs the elephant had already started to swell , even in
tendalla , yes .
' ' you get into the town , and some handsome jerk puts an air mission on you .
i thought he was killing a snake .
” he took out a notecase and looked in it and laughed .
there were ticks and fly to kill the stock , and the mosquitoes gave you fever and maybe you got
walcott clipped him with a left hook and jack went down .
" " you made plenty of money .
except the tales of the liars .
i wish you would take us .
liz coates worked for smith’s .
maybe we have them without knowing of it .
it was to remember him always by .
he looks like a nice fellow .
” “i’ll pic him , kid , ” zurito spat on the sand .
” nick said .
" " he ' s a pretty cold one , " hogan said .
the tall gray motor-buses were the only life of the square except for the pigeons and the man with a
for you .
they were normal at the tension that he was pulling on the line .
how do you feel ?
" want to play some cribbage , john ?
" where ' s the bathroom ?
perhaps she said something else .
" " what do you want ?
“gee , mike , don’t you wish we could just bum together ?
we would attack to the east of aachen a distance of some _num_ kilometres from where they were based .
guide to the camps and the hotels .
' i could feel the liquor and the fatigue drain out of me and the excitement come in .
“that would have been sensible .
” “no , ” said johnson .
five days , from daylight until dark , coming home after dark , dead tired but glad of the coolness
“you can’t get peat into liquor , ” nick said .
and then came to the first bridge crossing a feeder canal with steps to be climbed ; i don '
holding the revolver in his right hand he pulled the cord with his left to stop the train .
this way he gave the sensation of coming tragedy .
, ' it ' s a lion .
“how’s wall street ?
” “the other one , the big one with the spit tobacco face and the blue suit , is the
in a little while we could hear them coming in the brush and i shouted to let them know where
did you give mr .
" " good , that will be fine .
” nothing happened .
i am not bored , he thought .
” “you mean that you won’t .
” “what’s the whore say ?
” “do not speak in that way , ” the man in command said to the extremaduran .
i thought perhaps this had been the last clear hot day ; unusual heat before the rains .
“frank washbum .
stoop , hold the bottom extremity of the net in one hand and the top extremity in the other and
mangez ici !
' and i love venice .
don ' t spoil the fiesta .
“how do you feel , john ?
“to those who earn it , ” someone said outside the door .
the steer ran awkwardly and the bull caught him , hooked him lightly in the flank , and then turned
sun on the wind-swept side of the square .
know and several people that you do not know .
” “why do i know that ?
below us were the dark pits of the fortifications .
i lost eight men .
his mother looked at him across the table .
i wanted that poor kitty .
” “i’ll call you up , ” i said .
mason , and i was reading a wonderful story about a man who had been frozen in the alps and
just like we were before .
" i heard cohn had hurt you , jake , " brett said .
” “il est catholique , ” i said .
' ' a costly procedure , ' the colonel said .
" " it ' s a fine country for la chasse , fontan says .
" " oh , go to hell !
i can’t remember that at all .
” “good trout , all right , too .
“shut her down hard and sock him , ” i said .
just then montoya came into the room .
i put the bottles under the table .
this ?
sit down , count mippipopolous .
always nothing .
oh , thank you !
” “you are .
" " but why do they ask that ?
heart turn over inside him , as though some sleeping animal had rolled over in its burrow and frightened ,
' i ' ve got the braggies , ' i said .
" he rubbed his chin with his thumb , looked at it , and then started scraping again .
" --he slurred that over-- " or me ?
the air was cold and sharp to breathe and he smelled the cut hemlock and balsam boughs .
we smoothed them over and drove on into camp to find a sky full of locusts passing over , going
" you should have killed yourself last week , " he said to the deaf man .
he had to bid a little to get him but the stable let the horse go finally and my old
it was a great temptation to rest in the bow and let the fish make one circle by himself without
i said , ' we drew lots , you know ' .
the windows on the sunny side of the street were shuttered .
shouldn ' t i have stayed and cared for them ?
you couldn’t talk much and you did not need to talk .
" " why don ' t you go away , then ?
i knew that i was shooting well and i had that feeling of well-being and confidence that is so much
" he better watch out plenty , " said billy .
i could not write that well when i was his age , his father thought .
hop did not mind because she was not his real girl .
” “he says he’s missed a lot himself , ” nick confessed .
then garrick again , ' piga , b ' wana , piga !
" " what did he say ?
' piga , ' whispered m ' cola .
he had been hit in the spine .
' ' i can rest on my feet , or against a god-damned tree .
orchard bush and p .
nick held the rod in his right hand , letting the line run out through his fingers .
' ' when someone brings saint mark back another time under a load of pork from alexandria .
five lire for a favor .
” behind him he heard them breaking in the door .
take me , nickie .
he should have been killed in the heavy artillery bombardment that always preceded the attacks .
she said she wanted to hear me go to confession , but i told her that not only was it
both his cheeks and biting his lips , he walked past the machines and out the door .
“do you think they will shell us now ?
but there were only three , maybe four , phases that really interested me .
” he smiled again , showing his bad teeth .
" " where were you ?
it ' s about five miles down the road before you start to walk .
he started to run toward the house across the street , at the back of the next lot , when
he could see the boulders in the river and the high bank beyond with the trees and he remembered the
" i didn ' t mean to wake you up .
“don’t get wet , ” he said .
pretty soon come others .
he was getting his front legs out of the bottle to jump .
last night i formed another idea of her .
' ' you know how fond i am of him .
threw a club into the reeds where he had heard the snort .
the steer came up to him and made as though to nose at him and the bull hooked perfunctorily .
of the little clearing .
” “daddy ?
" schmidt is catholique , " madame fontan mused .
i’m trying to help you , you son of a bitch , his conscience said .
been shaken loose in a play when you are in minnesota and the others are beloit , wisconsin .
” “and the head , ” he said , tapping his forehead .
i don’t know .
” “the indians were all in town getting drunk .
even if you count italians .
' drink to him , daughter .
it reflects discredit on me .
the hump of muscle on the bull ' s shoulder , and pulled his horse sideways as he pivoted on
english ?
you could not sit outside the hut without dark glasses .
the grain-fields went up the hillsides .
you really said something then .
harry wills , hell .
but , boy , you can still shoot .
" we said good-by to the man at the desk at the hotel , and to larry and our other
” “are they dope fiends ?
peduzzi had been watching it closely .
' but you are very beautiful when you say it .
slower , with a steady beat , and multiplied a thousand times .
then he was sorry for the great fish that had nothing to eat and his determination to kill him never
started like a cough and sounded like ' _hey la mama !
i liked charo much better then .
“i’ve got to make some money .
” they sat together at a table that was close against the wall near the door of the café and
the young gentleman said he had not eaten but would be ready to go as soon as lunch was finished
they had moved to the edge of thick cover now and the elephant was close ahead .
' do you remember the time we were sheep hunting and your hat blew off and nearly fell on to
my dear she has never , really never , looked better .
and all the nakedness between .
“it goes too fast for me .
" " he is a fellow townsman , " he said , " and he is in distress .
“back to the hotel , ” jack says .
" " it ' s quite something to have met you , " nick put out his hand .
but he certainly made the paper more interesting reading , didn’t he ?
he was basically shy , as certain animals are , such as the bongo that you will never see in
you couldn ' t see the sea .
” “listening .
il est comme ça .
" " from washington , of course .
you can ' t get away from yourself by moving from one place to another .
he walked in the heat out the gate and along the path into the hemlock woods .
" he was in before lunch , " the waiter answered .
i was thinking of something else .
he took it out in boxing , and he came out of princeton with painful self-consciousness and the flattened nose
" " i don ' t have it my own way .
doctor wilcox was short , dark and carried an indexed book , _the young doctor ' s friend and guide_
this cabin .
” “i know it , nickie .
the pain came as he breathed , and his claws dug in the soft baked earth .
“it sure took a great jock to keep that kzar horse from winning .
“there’s nothing we can’t get out of and nothing that won’t blow over .
" i just got in .
" why don ' t you get a job and go to work ?
it went well with his face .
" you got to take a cure , billy , " mr .
they make wonderful glass day-times for the rich of all the world , and then they come home on the
” the bell buzzed again .
he had not listened to anything that brett had said .
have prayed for you .
that ' s all i have now .
' i want to go with b ' wana !
way through the untracked , parklike country .
fast .
“it’s excellent , ” wilson told him .
” “i’m afraid so , ” i said .
" " _our_ saviour ?
“it has to be absolute .
” “you’re quite right , ” said harris .
' droopy didn ' t know but the spearman said it was very rough and bad going where the stream
elliot had a number of friends by now all of whom admired his poetry and mrs .
" oh , my sweet christ .
two friends , braddocks and myself .
” “bad word , disgusted .
there was a big breeze blowing now and i was certain we had no chance of surprising him , our
he’s our good friend already .
signor tenente .
, unscrewed the top and handed it to macomber , who took it noticing how heavy it seemed and how
he tried to settle more comfortably to steer and from his pain he knew he was not dead .
the crowd were wild about it .
” “i don’t know , mr .
” “il est crazy pour le shooting , ” madame fontan said .
' ' i ' ll bust the son of a bitch .
his best friend .
‘oh , lord , may they not see it !
“sounds like an old-timer , ” robert wilson said , looking up from his kippers and coffee .
” “was anything the matter ?
the dishwasher , whose name was enrique , watched him critically and sneeringly .
but you don’t mind if i say my prayers at night ?
” i yelled to the nigger .
road to hell paved with unbought stuffed dogs .
the birds were all pulling out and leaving her and i headed for sou ' west key towing the skiff
' ' you walk like a deer in the forest and sometimes you walk as well as a wolf ,
of the trees .
they neither one wanted to hit the other , for fear the other would come back and hit him .
” “i never thought much about youth .
s on the boy he couldn’t believe it .
down-stairs .
' ' oh , yes .
” “one more .
" come on , fish , " he said .
” “not a doubt of it , fella , ” the man said .
' it ' s a damned serious subject .
then he saw one on the surface swimming in circles .
you bastard , thought macomber , you insolent bastard .
” “who could have told evans ?
' ' no , supreme commander .
wonderful shoot .
farm buildings that disappeared in the sudden smashes of stone dust from the hits by high explosive shells , nor
although quite rich in money and with a lot of armour .
she looked like mrs .
" we touched the two glasses as they stood side by side on the bar .
frazer .
were shadows .
maybe there was not any place for the sword to go in .
he felt all right .
it exactly what he should be tipped plus twenty per cent .
nick put in a pine stick as a cork .
all the money we made all the time fontan worked in the mines and i did washing .
they really smelled abominably .
, nor folders with typed copies , nor folders with carbons and then i locked the door of the cupboard
but you can say what you mean in it and make it stick .
“you said it then .
' it ' s only a phase in the big picture .
” the porter asked him .
the colonel looked up the road .
“how was africa ?
” “i’ll have to make it a little better but not much .
i must keep it entire and not let him do it .
but after all it’s their machine gun .
way off .
that is women from the southern part of the united states .
“i ain’t going to move .
he had been pulled down tight onto the bow and his face was in the cut slice of dolphin and
she was very good to him .
i lay at sou ' west key a day and nobody came after me .
couldn ' t you have gotten into some other jam ?
“i’ll tell you , ” max said .
i couldn ' t squeeze it and i corrected from my flinch , held my breath , and pulled the
don ' t be shy , fish .
, theatrical bastard , so i told m ' cola i would drink a bottle of beer .
he had been a heavyweight prizefighter and he was too long for the bed .
do before the war ?
cohn had been rather nervous ever since we had met at bayonne .
“what do you know about that ?
damn i ' ll be glad when the _gran maestro_ gets those big fiascos , he thought .
go to hell .
nick stood up .
was awake looking blousy enough in the first daylight and turned up at the pera palace with a black eye
weren’t you ?
” “well , some say he is .
” “is a trouble with a war , ” john said .
they sat there and drank beer while the big drum started and the ngoma began to build .
we sat in the white wicker chairs on the terrasse of the café and watched the motor-buses come in and
brush there was lots of sumac that was bright red .
” “i don’t know , ” nick was startled .
he went to find him .
c’est un mot très fort , ” he apologized , “mais vomir sur la table—” he shook his head sadly
the blind had been built at close arrow-shot of the lick , and sitting , leaning back , knees high
then he turned and came back .
a basque with a big leather wine-bag in his lap lay across the top of the bus in front of
they ' ve been shot at there ever since there ' s been salt .
" now !
” “then what will we do afterward ?
" johnson asked .
” “too many things .
i like to be with him and i like seeing the country and i don’t have to commit no larceny
” “the lad who sought eunuch-hood .
he was weak , but brett couldn ' t hold him , and he got up .
it ; branches and whole trees and dead birds , and all floating .
' ' don ' t you think we could do it once more ?
pajamas and tossed them up to the upper berth , then he took a book out and the bottle and
we’ll hit water again tomorrow .
“they drank that bottle so i got another .
” “why , signor maggiore ?
the mountains , to start fishing .
“he’s a lovely wolf .
" " but it ' s idiotic .
' ' awfully , ' she said , truly .
“sorry , chief .
that ' s really funny .
he was a little man with a mustache .
i left the note .
can leave .
" signor maggiore ?
but that night he was caught in the wire , with a flare lighting him up and his bowels spilled
damned if this isn’t a strange one , he thought .
” “how do you like america ?
the colonel heard a shot behind him , where he knew there was no other blind and turned his head
it was a good party .
" " let ' s go down .
the train was now coming into paris .
tell me , what do you really think of rilke ?
, my rifle slung , and droopy staggering steadily ahead , sweating heavily , under the buck .
i expected to shoot at any minute and i wanted to slow up enough so my heart would not be
fighter-bombers catch them on the roads .
' eat your steak before it gets cold and forgive me for talking about my trade .
it carried me right down and past the port hole and i grabbed and couldn’t hold anything and went on
" well , they smell about the same .
there was a woman having a kid with a young girl holding a blanket over her and crying .
” “that’s better , ” wilson said .
' ' can i come duck shooting ?
" * * * * * that night the mexicans played the accordion and other instruments in the ward and
it must be quite a difficult trade being an ex-fascist .
' ' the good aspect is that droopy ' s not at all depressed , ' pop said .
" listen , amigo , " said mr .
he just kept slapping me on the back and shaking his head .
would be to labrador in winter , tipped the doorman and got into the car and they drove along biscayne
“not like a human being .
” “he fled ahead of our troops because he was a collaborator , ” claude explained .
the major came very regularly to the hospital .
perhaps not , he thought .
you are a lovely host , jake .
nor did he ever have any feel of salt lake city or los angeles from what he heard from those
wide , the tracks grading up into the timber and there was blood , plenty of it .
" my wife does , though .
they’re polack catholiques .
" oh , he ' s very bad .
muscle above the bull’s shoulder , leaned all his weight on the shaft , and with his left hand pulled
what are you doing here ?
he was very severe about mistakes and would make her re-do an entire page if there was one mistake .
had to take them away finally .
side-streets went down to the harbor .
there were long brown mountains and a few pines and far-off forests of beech-trees on some of the mountainsides .
he passed it right and left , left and right before the bull’s muzzle .
” “no , you go , ” she said .
he only made the promises and explained how it would go .
oh the good , fine , lovely here in the dark .
“in at bacuranao .
and out of the cradle endlessly rocking .
nick dropped his pack and rod-case and looked for a level piece of ground .
“try one of these .
" knock on that , " he said , pointing to the barrera .
“is your dad in ?
he was pop ' s man and i believe his working estimations were only from day to day and required
three minutes again .
” “no , ” said nick .
until now the only such volume was the omnibus collection of the first forty-nine stories published in _num_ together with
at key west you would only have seen least terns nesting .
masts at key west and the la concha hotel up high out of all the low houses and plenty smoke
remember there are ladies at this bar .
he adjusted the sack and carefully worked the line so that it came across a new part of his shoulders
" " no , i have to go .
i could feel her shaking .
on the grass , the massive horns swung wide .
bed is my friend .
nice and sweet and easy and taking the fence smooth in a bunch , and moving away from us all
" " yes , that ' s so , all right .
' it was only an emotional experience .
old castle , with buildings close around it and a field of grain going right up to the walls and
to the ring .
there had been three other parties in that season , and the natives were hunting , supposedly defending their crops
" won ' t you please do it ?
it hurt him to drink out of the jug .
what was the trouble about ?
" very nice , " he said .
and we will retake the other one , general fat ass franco on his shooting stick with the advice of
but a cramp , he thought of it as a calambre , humiliates oneself especially when one is alone .
he didn’t look at george but looked in the mirror that ran along back of the counter .
she was losing her english .
” “they only came for the fiambre , ” using the spanish slang word for corpse , the same used
they were too complicated .
“they’re killing their dead , ” claude said .
we will lunch at harry ' s , or we ' ll come back here and i will be packed
so they say to take it by assault .
” “good-night , mrs .
" say , " he said .
the prickling was all that remained of the vast capacity for fear some brave men start with .
" " i wish you wouldn ' t , " nick said .
" he can cook and everything .
the old man reversed the oar and put the blade between the shark ' s jaws to open them .
nick put the basin out in the kitchen .
he had another drink .
“we’ll get rid of him right after his offensive .
_num_ d roman soldier—[getting up from the barrel .
place , ” and a story called “the light of the world” which nobody else ever liked .
" i better go find hogan , " i said .
at the café suizo we had just sat down and ordered fundador when robert cohn came up .
" " i can ' t help it .
the varnished ones .
on your knees , brother .
nothing could touch him .
“there’s been a wreck .
” “i believe it .
it was a really fine tusk from about a five-year-old bull .
how are you , jake , anyway ?
' ' would you eat at the gritti ?
“an industrial accident , ” the doctor said .
he clubbed desperately at what he could only feel and hear and he felt something seize the club and it
one of them was splintered from banging against the barrera .
“so , you said that .
when he was gone , the _gran maestro_ said to the colonel , ' what is the boy ?
" " it would make a difference to you if anybody did it .
del campo .
“i taste everything but the potatoes , ” he said .
a threat ?
" " i ' m all right , " i said .
eat .
" but since i am not crazy , i do not care .
“he’s going down all that way .
i’m going right back down to the chapel and pray until it’s finished .
' what is he ?
, from his dead-man’s face in which his eyes were alive as a hawk’s .
“you can have one .
krebs acquired the nausea in regard to experience that is the result of untruth or exaggeration , and when he
i loosened up the pump and worked her a few times , and then filled her up and pumped one
" " it ' s all right for you to say that , but i do know it .
" " there was one man , " madame fontan said , " and his wife never lets him get
i take a pillow which represents my good conscience and i put my arms around it and off i go
“that’s a big game .
the hard-eyed people at the bull-fighter table watched me go .
the younger waiter went over to him .
they were resting on top of a big log ringed where they sat by the cutting of the barkpeelers .
” “unless he shot hisself for fun .
" brett drank from her glass of absinthe .
" he smiled again .
" i ' m all busted inside , " jack says .
_num_ st soldier—the women stuck all right .
we have to .
billiard cue that they used for explanation .
" she turned to me .
” “did they leave any message ?
greek , you know .
" i should think it would have been grand for the tailor .
' ' because there are too many factors .
” “no , comrade , ” said the man handling the dice without looking up .
" let ' s have one .
fire and then drop back behind the infantry and fire on the gun and knock it out and give the
to do now sometimes .
i ' ll tell you he looked pretty good to me in there to-day .
those were just exercises .
anyhow , we were sitting on the terrace of the café select , and harvey stone had just crossed the
i wish you’d write something sometime for our lady .
his hand pushing the pommel , his left arm crossed low , his left shoulder forward , his weight on
by their drivers , were coming up the gap in the ridge , and men with empty stretchers were walking
' ' hell , ' said the colonel .
nick saw him shine in the sun and then he found him where he was tumbling in the ferns .
" you got nice friends .
somewhere that’s really good or he wouldn’t take her .
" thank you , " the old man said .
you might give it an honest try .
they were cold and wet with the dew , and could not jump until the sun warmed them .
" every one was very respectful to the peroxide blonde , who said all this in a high stagey way
cohn , of course , was much younger .
it wouldn’t be a man .
of lung in to see the trout rise in the rapid heavy flow of the water .
” “have a glass , too .
” “it’s wicked , ” i said .
there was no carbon to record what the customer’s ticket said .
out above the rolling high ground he was crossing .
“a man must not marry .
we had tried , in all the shoot , never to be competitive .
” “if i thought you were a spy i would shoot you now , ” the second lieutenant said .
what rot !
" the little man walked after nick and sam , the cook , back into the kitchen .
gayer than me .
his voice sounded strange in the darkening woods .
quivering , the bull’s tail brushing his chest as he charged the cape hernandez offered him .
here , " he showed his hand .
don ' t you want a dessert ?
he was also anxious to lie down and take a seconal .
" he rowed slowly and steadily toward where the bird was circling .
” “why did those men go ?
the spanish civil war and one about the cuban fisherman who fought a swordfish for four days and four nights
' but you can ' t give me that .
the fiesta was going on .
section , mr .
so now he would never have a chance to finish it .
” zurito leaned back , relieved .
we turned up the side road to fontan ' s , stopped the car outside the house , and went
" if we don ' t have to walk .
maybe better .
" " how was america ?
a bed with a girl who has put her hair up in pin curls to be beautiful to-morrow .
, and the green painted co-operative where they bought their wine ; good wine and cheap .
“he’s a no good son of a bitch .
back in the stern he turned so that his left hand held the strain of the line across his shoulders
" but nearly always there was the actual touching .
and measured the horn with shiftings of his widespread hand .
“highly profound emotions .
the bull lurched with him as he lay on , and seemed to sink ; then he was standing clear
across a little valley .
at one table four men played cards .
when i came back to the bal there was a crowd on the floor and georgette was dancing with the
je ne m’en souviens plus .
that bastard heart certainly couldn ' t hold the pace .
i love you more since i saw that thing .
he inhaled deeply .
“now she is so much dearer to me .
“the signor takes a cold bath every morning .
where the hand-forged hook projected from the head of the small tuna .
" " fifty grand , " jack says , " at two to one .
you think the sister would allow it ?
“there’s two of them .
she probably would speak to a horse-cavalryman , the general , for now he had two stars and they grated
” “you better not have anything to do with it at all , ” sam , the cook , said
“i’m sorry as hell about her but what could i do ?
my daughter fell in love with a man in vevey .
they walked back along the sea and the wind was still blowing and the rollers were breaking far out on
scare him .
heavy in his right hand .
president , and to the public of madrid , the most intelligent and generous of the world , " was
he could see the fish and he had only to look at his hands and feel his back against the
' hapana , ' m ' cola said finally .
it seemed as though they wanted to touch you to make it certain .
“look at the deal they gave this poor old tiger flowers .
it was the same room i had slept in when bill and cohn and i were in bayonne .
and had looked back to see why the big bull did not follow .
i woke up .
he was shaky with excitement and i saw he had been washing blood off his hands .
two policemen grabbed him and rushed him over to the fence .
it is the flower of our party .
” “c’est un original , ” fontan said , “mais vraiment gentil .
it was lonely and rainy there , and there was a battalion of arditi quartered in the town .
had birth certificates .
" i ' ve promised to dance this with jacob , " she laughed .
everything’s in the car .
" it ' s just around the corner from the garden .
' the driver asked .
manuel nodded .
yes , his other , good side said .
storm of dust .
" i just can ' t read him .
they were coming up on mestre fast , and already it was like going to new york the first time
retana shrugged his shoulders .
' ' did you have no great impressions of it ?
we fell back to here ; to this ridge .
but would the bone spur hurt him too much ?
” “this boy remained in the hospital in the valley since february , ” the extremaduran said .
' s big field glasses , a canteen with water and kati sending a chop-box with food .
” “in snow , ” the other warden laughed .
so what ?
break again in a long line in the rain .
inside the dining-car the waiters served the fifth successive table d ' hôte meal .
you’re so damned superior you don’t have to be superior .
only the bare moist earth and often i could find no worms .
“what’s the mechanics of this place ?
' no success ?
" i had no idea what they were like .
kzar came on faster than i’d ever seen anything in my life and pulled up on kircubbin that was going
two men on cow ponies , wearing western work clothes , got down from their stock saddles and hitched their
” “now it’s not your fault and i can’t make it worse for you .
" he ' ll sing now in a little while .
there was one mass of yellow shirts dancing up and down in the crowd .
“no , ” said zurito .
“i hope they have a lot of good luck .
he mopped off his face .
" were the berlitz undergraduates a wild lot ?
demand , pressed the klaxon again and again , i watched the look of utter rapture and ecstasy on the
“have you ever been there ?
now , broadside , in easy range .
it’s wonderful .
that’s in principle .
yankees of new york were playing the tigres of detroit .
the sunlight came in through the window and shone on a map on the pineboard wall of the hut .
” “no , ” nick said .
you must do , and then you decide how to do it .
they could see the surf along ten mile point .
" " i wish i ' d been up .
“i only understand little bit .
he was the only man i ever loved .
of the corral with the roman ahead , carrying a spear , then me , then m ' cola with
“does the boat owe any money ?
" but i will say ten our fathers and ten hail marys that i should catch this fish , and
her nose , however , did not look like warm wax .
he remembered how the attack had taken off from monastier , gone through fornace , and on this winter day
joe dragged him into bushes and got back up on the wagon-box .
at the landing place , where jackson was handing the luggage to a porter and looking after the portrait himself
it is good here , too .
to them .
a while they went away .
canal , and he had been there a thousand times and never seen it , but there it was every
it’s more amusing .
we agreed he must have just come in from the garden .
we must be fresh for tomorrow .
" i know what i ' m talking about when i talk about that bird .
no one had ordered any since the war started and it was still the same price as before the revolt
" " i say , " mike said , " they were fine bulls , weren ' t they ?
" " doctor wilcox here has partaken slightly , " doc fischer said .
you have blinded me !
la chasse et la pêche , ” fontan said .
" he drew that beer and cut it off and when he saw the money he pushed the beer across
one said something and three or four others joined in and kamau explained to me that they had seen two
isn ' t it , pop ?
” by two o’clock the money was at the western union .
no more barbs in the shoulder .
" " i ' ve been asking you to , " the boy told him gently .
she tucked it around him neatly and carefully .
make him come .
enrique watched , but there was no one else .
high up the bank when droop held up a leaf .
' no , ' said garrick .
” “cuba .
you and bill go on ahead .
, then me with the springfield , pop with the mannlicher , p .
" we walked along .
once m ' cola , in the dark , loaded with pop ' s heavy gun and an assortment of
blindy felt it before he put it in his pocket .
they had come by train from a bull-breeding ranch in castile , and had been unloaded off flat-cars at the
“and warming in the stomach .
“now we’ve had a look at them i better get going .
do you wish more wine ?
a waiter i knew found a chair from another table and i sat down with a thin , white-faced ,
he felt the line carefully with his right hand and noticed his hand was bleeding .
" i wish the boy were here and that i had some salt , " he said aloud .
past .
them .
” “handle him like you handled kid lewis .
" for god ' s sake , go off somewhere .
” “that’s it , ” jack would say .
brett wanted to dance but they did not want her to .
” “he just a big bluff .
“this man is very funny .
” “with that collection of yellow boys .
" " he was snotty to us , too .
" you want to work ?
' ' i know , daughter .
he was beginning to feel a slight nausea .
you had an office to produce it in and a secretary to help you .
we were all luxuriantly , restfully tired .
and true and only love .
the american wife stood at the window looking out .
“missing is bad .
“can you still see genoa ?
studying music .
" that ' s one thing , " jack says .
garrick started to talk and i placed the back of my hand against his mouth .
they’ll be shooting with him all right .
_ _num_ d soldier_--no , i ain ' t tried it .
he reached out for the line and held it softly between the thumb and forefinger of his right hand .
the trigger pull put me off .
i saw a puff of white from the engine and heard the whistle then another puff and heard the whistle
the little man with the thick glasses that had talked to us about largo caballero was talking with some people
“i wished i was a fish , ” nick said .
“kill the driver at the first stone .
the cast of characters and the variety of themes became as diversified as the author’s own life .
their roots bulked above the ground and the branches were twisted .
they both looked very tired but i remember thinking they looked a couple of disgusting fakes .
his father put his hand on david’s shoulder to move him back and have him wait outside and then he
then he turned away and walked up the hill to the cottage .
" " i ' ll love it .
one side and his shirt was torn open .
a shadow across the bottom of the stream .
the gentleman sat down .
lights on , looking for a place to turn .
“all right ?
the owner shook the wine-skin sadly .
he’s got a nice wife .
" i say , do i look too much of a mess ?
“did you shoot it , jim ?
' ' did you ever get up before daylight .
“why they ran liquor now ?
i hit him with the springfield and he went down and spun over and i shot again , too quickly
' that was a hell of a shot , ' pop said .
i’m sorry i was so slow .
the coffee-glasses and our three empty cognac-glasses were on the table .
" bill asked in the taxi on our way down to the ile saint louis .
the boat came out sculling toward us .
“he says it was an accident .
' ' where will we leave the cadillac ?
leave me alone , i tell you .
“wouldn’t it be hell to be in town ?
odgar loved her enough , god knows .
he just felt a faint slackening of the pressure of the line and he commenced to pull on it gently
the old man watched for him to come again but neither shark showed .
on this night it was really cold outside and he came in with icicles on his mustache and small pus
" there ' s the speise-karte , " i said to john .
oh , lord , may he drive it clean over the fence !
if he does not do that maybe he will come up with the sunrise .
" " what was the matter ?
“that’s a young man that will go a long way in italy , ” i said to guy .
americans always eat kek .
of sight , i knew i had him .
so does a coyote every time i ever see one , and a wolf , gaited like no other animal
the shore .
' ' how will that leave you ?
it was very strange that we should meet .
' ' not like chicago , jackson .
dust .
as he walked forward , holding the muleta in his left hand and the sword in his right , he
rocks i saw two buffalo .
now he was ready .
he was awake a long time before he remembered that his heart was broken .
skidded , plowing sideways to an almost stop and wilson was out on one side and he on the other
the bottles were half full .
bull-fight was to commence in twenty minutes .
“we must check all romanticism .
frederick the great .
then i had m ' cola open the two cans of mincemeat and the plum pudding and i cut these
they were all looking down the road where the point would come from .
it is easier to keep well in a good country by taking simple precautions than to pretend that a country
' what about a fiasco of valpolicella ?
' ' that was a torcello boy .
his neck was very red and the blond hairs were sunburned .
“do i have to let her put her arm around my neck ?
when the cars emptied , the onlookers were absorbed into the crowd .
they were putting up the shutters .
nothing , he thought .
nick laid the bottle full of jumping grasshoppers against a pine trunk .
by a stone and needed vulcanizing—and , without the car , i walked into the town , doing things that
" the train had come in .
' ' did you like many germans ?
but each time i was very tired .
i ' ve had mine already .
“if it was belmonte doing that stuff , they’d go crazy , ” retana’s man said .
shoot for bone .
' ' everybody , ' she said .
i don’t know how long it took him to learn the sounds of the machines but it must have taken
' at lunch under the green fly of the dining-tent , in the shade of a big tree , the
he took a fifty-peseta note out of his pocket-book and laid it , spread out flat , on the table
jig .
" " you ' re damn right .
“henry , ” his wife called .
' ' i ' ll only need the flask , ' i said .
the others stood around .
" " it won ' t make you happy .
or the first time a girl is unwell , but i have been upset .
war was over .
" ever know him , mike ?
from the folds of the muleta , rose on his toes , and sighted along the blade .
length very carefully in my mind ; fishing very carefully under all the logs , all the turns of the
” “i’m sure there will be .
he knocked on the glass and told the driver to turn around .
“well , jimmy , ” he said , after a while .
' good old karl , ' i said , warmed with whisky , understanding , and sentiment .
his horse ' s ears quivered .
toward the end of his life hemingway wrote two fables for the child of a friend , “the good lion”
' ' good-bye , ' she said .
m ' cola suddenly commenced to shout a stream of high-pitched , rapid , singing words in wakamba ending in
wasn ' t me at all .
historians ; they have the viewpoint ; the stream , with no visible flow , takes five loads of this
but that was the location of the brain and the old man hit it .
i went to the door and there was the count .
we were caught in the jam , dancing in one place in front of him .
bull-fight he was suspicious of .
the old man knew that he was dead but the shark would not accept it .
“he says you should denounce him , ” mr .
it was the strange , rare smile which rises from the deep , dark pit , deeper than a well
the american girl .
mike lost to me and handed the bartender a hundred-franc note .
looking back we could see the country spread out below .
they would be calling to each other , keeping in touch with each other in the thicket , as they
“don’t go off at half cock , doc , ” dick said .
boulevard and turned west to get onto the road to coral gables and the tamiami trail .
of her name and my head just out and rested there and then i swam over to the skiff and
like .
' kufa , ' i told him .
kircubbin horse in front and going smooth .
the first cushions thrown down out of the dark missed him .
it seemed like a nice cathedral , nice and dim , like spanish churches .
its majesty from that part of france to all over england .
they were just built to tempt us and we had no word on them at all .
to burn at the edge and as it burned the man started to drop fast and i was watching him
chapter _num_ as i started up the stairs the concierge knocked on the glass of the door of her lodge
liz was terribly frightened , no one had ever touched her , but she thought , “he’s come to me
she filled the quarter litre wine measure with a funnel .
then the driver came out swinging two flat leather mail-pouches and climbed up , and everybody waving we started off
they were beautiful and hatless and poorly but chicly dressed , and they were talking very fast to each other
that of the colonel .
figure him any way you like .
from the rhine in the summer of _num_ .
" " well , ciaou then .
" " now we fish together again .
' we ' ve got god knows how many rhino scattered about here .
then go half a mile from it in any direction and you find it like that .
but they ran quickly with it .
' ' who does he mean , you or himself ?
with his right hand .
i do not believe he thought about his clothes much .
' ' that would be more barbarous than the pigeon shooter .
" we came down around curves , through deep dust , the dust powdering the olive trees .
they all wore sweaters and shirt waists with round dutch collars .
frankie smiled at him as he went .
there was the pleasant early-morning feeling of a hot day .
the big blue flies started to come to the dead that were in the ditch and there were butterflies around
" hello , you chaps , " brett said .
listen , you !
sometimes we were ordered to do things not in sufficient force—as at celadas .
she cried a good deal and they tried several times to have a baby before they left dijon .
in every time .
" the bigger they are , the more meat for the poor .
i ' m a lucky son of a bitch and i should never be sad about anything .
that nigger beat him by a fluke” the ticket window went up and the three indians went over to it
" come on , " said nick .
over his head was a bull ' s head , stuffed by a madrid taxidermist ; on the walls were
where the hell does it end ?
as he ran forward to put his hand on it the other birds whirred off .
” retana did not smile .
“it’s by the spring .
i don’t care what he did to get it .
the young indian stopped and blew out his lantern and they all walked on along the road .
, then he cranked the flywheel over and the engine started .
” she bit her lip and turned and went into the kitchen .
“he has no friends .
the dingo .
" you might not like them , " nick said to the boy .
he thinks you’re a bootlegger .
when you want to be the moon and various stars and live with your man and have five sons ,
the old man was gaining line steadily now .
' are you sure you want more of the sad science ?
mike was awful .
" " what company does he command ?
" knock on the wood .
women knew it too .
" " my business is to care for the wounded , not to kill them .
he could see denver from the denver post , and correct the picture from the rocky mountain news .
“roll over .
” “we’ll wait and see .
and be impotent again .
he might go into town saturday night .
and i want a kitty and i want some new clothes .
the sea .
“you are nineteen ?
take the big gun .
” “my friend is a misogynist , ” i said , “an old german misogynist .
he can ' t believe it didn ' t mean anything .
' ' no bugs , ' he said firmly .
but when things are really bad and you are all right , a drink just makes it clearer .
" we were sitting in the blind that wanderobo hunters had built of twigs and branches at the edge of
cold early winter day and at twelve forty-five i pushed open the revolving doors at chicote’s to try a little
“i tell you , mr .
" do you want coffee ?
one man rolled over and another started to crawl and while i watched claude shot them both .
then the negro , after the rum , would try for a tremendous effort and once he had the old
get a seeing-eyed dog “and what did we do then ?
” “all i understand is the dead , ” she said .
they were much more powerful and simpler than the general-issue american bazooka , having a bigger warhead and you could
i won ' t stand it .
she was sober .
and there are many tricks .
he tried to give me a lot of money , you know .
the prisoner’s right hand toward them .
he can buy a bottle and drink at home .
time the searchlight went on and the first bullet reached him , he had one thought .
" beautiful lady , " said bill .
it is awfully good .
" dancing , i looked over brett ' s shoulder and saw cohn , standing at the bar , still
and it ' s only the high-lights .
i’d like to hear them talk sitting in our own house .
distance .
birds all went up in the air and stayed all around me .
” david asked his father .
when it had turned from the grand canal , the wind had swung it so the gondoliere had to shift
he was drunk .
three strikes is out , he thought , and they gave me four .
were very painful .
" utilize a little of this .
we live by accidents of terrain , you know .
and dove again .
" " i know .
“that’s not the question .
“yes , ” sister cecilia went on .
i watched the train pull out .
it was built up and new , but no more ugly than a middle western town , and it was
” “did they bother you ?
we call it lucky if it ' s tear gas .
you weren ' t bored , were you , robert ?
“won’t you have a drink with us ?
but i love you very much , too , whatever that is .
” “at under a hundred yards ?
he knew that .
under the wine i lost the disgusted feeling and was happy .
frazer’s mind , but the effect was all the same .
sun while i sighted on his chest and then refused the shot , wanting not to frighten the greater kudu
" retana ' s man leaned forward and knocked three times on the barrera .
the bull passed him and the sword shot up in the air , twinkling under the arc-lights , to fall
air .
they knew all , or nearly all , of the other tricks ; for one had been a sergeant and
' i ' m glad you ' re feeling better , ' pop said .
” “we like to have you .
" " you talk sort of bitter .
" " you never told me , " robert cohn said .
“see if he will help you .
my old man wasn’t tight like most of these jockeys that have got the first dollar they made riding at
the part right around here doesn’t look so bad at night .
as she came into the room he put his hand out for the drink and closed his hand on it
several parisians were alleged to have been killed by him .
' do you think---- ' ' i don ' t think , ' the girl said .
please keep on telling me .
" " but he ' s not aficionado like you are .
" let ' s go see him .
” “i’ve got to come .
she said she was waiting for you to bring her some fish for tonight .
” “you’re too damned smart , ” doctor wilcox said .
it ' s so simple .
" " all right , " i said , " but see you look after it .
' ' do you think it could be the timer ?
wine of wyoming it was a hot afternoon in wyoming ; the mountains were a long way away and you
a long undulating country with frequent rises and descents , sandy underfoot and the country alive again .
there’s a place way up above where i’ve seen it as clear as a trout stream .
' tell your bloody fortune with those , ' pop said .
nick lay down again under the blanket .
” “go ahead and shoot it , ” i said to claude .
he had never had a towel in his mouth before .
him were all part of a regular progression in which she had built herself a new life and he had
he had cured him of that by having him always look back at his shoulder to be sure he had
we were going to hunt up the hill side to the right and then we would have checked it all
' here are the two things from the square bottle .
and come and get it , you sons of bitches , or i ' ll throw it away .
” “you have to now , nickie , don’t you see ?
walcott just shook his head .
i don’t know whether he believed me or not .
“nothing’s ever going to be like it was in the old days .
your typhoid shots up to date , and all the small delectables .
” “and then walk back to it , ” al said .
there was a safe , suburban feeling .
" cohn looked relieved .
" " get two or three rods with reels , and lines , and some flies .
' he hated to have anything killed except what we were after , no killing on the side , no
“i’ll be back in the morning , ” the doctor said , standing up .
packard will be studying things out .
the other clubbing thuds that came were echoes .
“can i see it now ?
' ' o .
” “i liked it very much .
haven ' t you got tickets ?
when do we have to leave ?
behind us the concrete stands filled solidly .
it ' s very sad .
” “why don’t you obey my order ?
able to see the whole thing .
" hogan ' s as dumb as i am .
“what are you looking it ?
the soil of the hills was red , the sage grew in gray clumps , and as the road rose
" " i ' ll tell it myself .
" they ' re all right .
then m ' cola and droopy were pointing , and pop had me by the sleeve trying to pull me
' ' she looks so sad to me sometimes across the canal , that i cannot stand it .
” nick looked at his plate .
for the next twenty-two years until his death , there was still a real country on the south side .
' ' hear from karl ?
” “have her come out .
” asked the other .
' then to the girl he said , ' we ' ll have to change that frame .
, and through his mother of one of the oldest .
george ' s a great man .
" i am so sorry , " he said , and patted me on the shoulder with his good hand
every worthless thing had been left in the bathroom .
against the wide band of the tump-line .
we were both getting at the same thing from different angles .
" " the hell with you , " doctor wilcox said .
aloud , he said , ' where are you getting on that call , arnaldo ?
good chow .
now , answer me .
one was down the valley from triberg and around the valley road in the shade of the trees that bordered
deeper in the dust and lay back against the wall of the hole , resting against the small of my
' he says , ' pop began , ' they have found a country where there are kudu and sable
she’d probably like it , too .
“have big feet , too .
lights , i knew that i would never have done such things , and i was very much afraid to
ghee .
it was a good thing to have in reserve .
' ' no , ' the girl said .
he had seen many that weighed more than a thousand pounds and he had caught two of that size in
show he comes straight down here , sometimes in his pyjamas just with a coat over them .
the red shafts of the banderillas twitching with his walk .
i saw his face duck sideways in the light .
" i ' ll cut your coleta myself .
” “how long have you been this way ?
when he came in the fight would start .
he’d seen it in the war work the same way .
" " did they ?
they always have cattle where there is good grass in the summer , and the girls of the highest houses
days like this stretched out ahead .
" do you know them ?
it was hard hit and i took my time , shot carefully , and broke its neck .
manuel stood alone , facing the bull .
" braddocks called to me from a table .
the elevator was full with a party from the floor above so they went down fast .
wood in the hollow box , the bull charged and came out into the corral , skidding with his forefeet
let us therefore see what inspiration we may derive from the dead .
" what ' s your name ?
[_the wine-seller looks up expectantly .
to compare it with ordinary scotch .
he was what romero wanted in bulls .
they were shelling up the gran via and i went into chicote’s to wait it out .
that’s the unwritten law .
great a hold on you , or in case it shouldn’t be true , but it is not very good
” “i don’t want to be buried in france , ” nick said .
, which was a big , long , strong , spatular-fingered hand ; well kept as was becoming , as
” “he was crossing the road when he was struck by machine-gun fire from a farmhouse on the right .
i put the reels in the tackle-bag .
before i could finish baiting , another trout jumped at the falls , making the same lovely arc and disappearing
" " want to walk back ?
“somebody shot him in the back .
' ' good luck .
sometimes i would fish four or five different streams in the night ; starting as near as i could get
i heard them talking but i did not listen .
when i was a girl it seemed so simple .
uncle george and the three indian men stood up .
“ain’t a man’s life worth more than a load of liquor ?
" " playing any tennis ?
new york and that made a lot of unpleasantness .
he raised it to drink and looked ahead at the high grass with the flat-topped trees behind it .
" i ' m sorry i fouled your boy .
in the evenings he read the toledo blade and the grand rapids paper by the lamp in the front room
" it would be better to gut the dolphin a little later to save the blood in the meat ,
he sat back comfortably and smiled at me when i turned around to look at the country .
i was too wet with sweat to sit down and i signed garrick to keep on going .
" maybe if i can increase the tension just a little it will hurt him and he will jump ,
it was my own lousy fault .
i’m rotted half way up my thigh now .
then we will finish this wine and then go in the gondola .
“you stinking bastard .
" there ' s nothing wrong with me .
” “you got some beer ?
first it made the skillet shine darkly , then it sizzled and spat and he greased again and poured the
unload peasants from the country coming in to the market , and we watched the buses fill up and start
used as a brooklyn ice-pick .
to the bull .
“they’re a small target .
” he stopped and looked back , the great heavy helmet looking ridiculous as he turned his head , like
good-by to the american lady , whose name had been found by the man from cook ' s on a
and all he felt now was a great tiredness and anger that this was the end of it .
' ' i am quite sure it was worse .
anything made him want to fight and he would fight with deadly seriousness exactly as some people eat or read
he didn’t seem to notice her much .
" " don ' t be indecent , michael .
wanted to make a speech .
” fontan asked me .
, she had gone well away so she would not disturb this little pocket of the plain that he could
" do you remember what we came to this country for ?
to show him the opening .
if it isn’t enjoyable—why do it ?
' no , i can ' t say it .
we never sell the beer before it’s good .
' you should not take it so seriously .
but they are full grown and nobody but us would ever hunt them .
there is no spanish word for bull-fight .
maybe we hanged him .
“you see , i am commanding the battalion , ” para said .
" mike and bill were on the other wall across the pit of the corral .
put on my soldier-suit and go and walk around this town even though it is too early .
" " must be swell being a steer .
" we ' re both americans .
he ought to be shot .
he leaned down and shoved it under .
most of chicote’s old customers are on franco’s side ; but some of them are on the government side .
they knew all about helios and officers’ glasses from the riff and if you wanted to be properly sniped ,
the jungle , and that must be hunted with dogs .
but now he never would .
” the man steering was watching the channel closely .
the authority was seated in plain sight in the middle of the sunny patch looking , in his steel hat
" bring me a telegram form , please .
it was something that gave caste , something to believe in , something fashionable and god-giving to suffer a little
he opened his knees , lifted his arm out , and let it hang by his side .
still , it was too heavy .
" why the hell don ' t you get another cook ?
will joke you out of trying to learn details of the _triste metier_ of war and we will go to
and besides he ' s dead .
" he writes a good letter .
" hel-lo , jake , " he said .
“sixty , ” ad finished .
they were at the base of the grass stems .
” “so they tell me .
sticking stiff over the edge of the wagon box .
american men make the best husbands , ” the american lady was saying .
gouging him to make him let go and then blackie gave a yell like you’ve never heard .
i ' d see the buffalo feeding where they lived , and when the elephants came through the hills we
" " the second .
he was trying to hold it in .
” “don’t you think we’ll wake them up , talking ?
" " you don ' t need to talk spanish , " the interpreter said .
they knelt down beside the dining-room table and krebs’s mother prayed .
" ' so you won ' t hit me ?
" " non , monsieur .
the authority took an instant fancy to this very pleasant room and named it the club .
they weren’t very bright .
the trees were big , and the foliage was thick but it was not gloomy .
there were four other niggers sitting at a table playing cards .
gentlemen , either you must govern--or you must be governed .
' ' the biggest bloody kind .
" " i told you .
” “they were mechanics who had to return to their air field , ” someone said .
the rebound from his discovery that he had not been everything to his first wife .
" yes , " i said .
” “yes , sir , ” the porter said .
before columbus sighted it and that the things you find out about it , and those that have always lived
his big hand went all the way around it .
bill went up and robert sat beside bill to save a place for me , and i went back in
she was not at all nervous now .
they all hunt the same places .
it ' s just to let the air in .
” the canary shook his feathers and pecked into them .
” “i love you .
' the long one is for david garrick and his pal , ' he explained .
we had bought what there was to buy in nairobi and we were pretty well to the end of the
he was impressed .
there were woods along the shore and the boat we had come in was tied to the dock .
you won’t laugh , though ?
a big black duck down beside m ' cola , him laughing , then , the four cripples swimming away
so we attacked , the three of us in line , exactly where the germans wished us to attack .
up and down .
" listen , you think i ' m drunk .
when i spoke to the waiter about the shooting he wouldn’t say anything .
we went in through the gate .
whatever stuff they ' ve got in the corrals .
while he sat there wilson came up .
i stopped at the bar and asked them for an envelope .
“what’s happened ?
to hell with brett .
" " i have to .
he looked about thirty-five .
he’s not traveling as he was .
" they ' ve stopped over in san sebastian , " i said .
it doesn’t have that quality the gulf stream water has .
he kept the same pace and then lengthened it a little again .
" " what are you going to do for money ?
they were going to cut off his coleta .
b ' wana ' .
“ i d o n ’ t w a nt t o l o s e the w a y
don ' t you like it ?
' how would i know ?
they were all whores and they knew what they could do with it .
or perhaps i was looking at the small bird and thinking of him .
nick brought it over .
was offering up the rhino to please me .
it wasn’t a german name either .
of town .
littless leaned forward and spat toward the fire .
i stood out in the vestibule and george opened the door so i could see out but there was only
“would you mind getting me a bottle of beer , captain ?
i know it’s a weakness and silliness but i make up stories to myself in the daytime and in one
“for comrade fake santa claus , ” said baldy .
flowers .
” “i can’t even move , ” the nigger said .
" " yes , that ' s what you would say , " mrs .
' ' i won the damned thing drawing lots .
" " what ' s this ?
practically every one is divorced .
its open hold covered with canvas and lashed tight , the sails of the schooner filled and it moved out
we’ll be at home every thursday afternoon .
wilson knew something about it and only expressed it by saying , “damned fine lion , ” but macomber did
“you’ll be all right in a couple of days .
karl was thin now , his skin sallow , his eyes very tired looking and he seemed a little desperate
they were conducting the conversation on a high plane .
john took a bottle off a low shelf in the corner and handed it to the down-state man .
' ' we won ' t go into it now .
it was very jolly .
a part of milano ; and bologna .
' it ' s wonderful , ' the colonel said .
there was a bus to burguete .
“i was sleeping the same as you .
” “you were in a kosher convent .
' simba , ' he said , and did not look pleased .
” “can’t see him until you’re on him .
it was just a lake and new and not like a lake you had lived on .
now , facing the bull , he was conscious of many things at the same time .
there is an indian lady very sick .
will you give my love to renata ?
' ' if you ever hit andrea , hit him with the barrel ; not with the butt .
“an excellent diagnosis , doctor .
john told her .
“pour one yourself , ” i said .
" talk about something else .
" above the small of the back were the same two scars , raised as thick as a finger .
bull that looked at him .
“certainly .
right by tues .
' ' we heard you shoot .
sheer violence of the bulls .
many people in hailey who owned radios protested about the hospital ' s x-ray machine which ruined their morning reception
she had been sick only a few days .
” and leaning back , swung the cape forward .
' ' i do not like them either .
” he couldn’t hear me .
“you don’t have to laugh , ” max said to him .
“i don’t know where he is , ” he said , coming back into the pastry room carrying the glass
we want you to enjoy yourself .
he climbed up with his bag .
but she can be so cruel and it comes so suddenly and such birds that fly , dipping and hunting
” “leave me , ” said the matador who , now , repulsed and refused , felt the nakedness of
“there’s that .
" " he may die , " doctor wilcox said .
bill was out first roll .
" he had been a very great fencer , and before the war the greatest fencer in italy .
she slept in a different way than his career girl had slept .
john put his hat down on the table .
away .
had failed to attain their objectives .
" asked bill .
their faces were a grey brown , the oldest looked to be about fifty , had thin lips , an
" " all right , " i said .
" are you germans ?
i was using a pair of field glasses , eight power , small zeisses that you could cover with your
us , moving his head up and down .
knife you get snotty .
" " that was his wife .
i do not understand about that .
it is the loveliest city in the world , next to our own , and i want to know some
' can ' t we look at it here ?
' get your back in it , jerk , ' he said in english .
but with no bulges and without the silver shine .
the people were all kind .
" " haven ' t i done my work ?
” “what are you doing now ?
that’s how i lost .
great news from the mainland for three days it blew out of the south bending the fronds of the royal
they don ' t know what he ' s worth .
“i don’t know , ” the nigger said .
what if it only lasts that long ?
that form inland to the south and move northward out to the sea .
he liked harris .
he had the tin of vegetable shortening and he cut a piece off the top of an empty flour sack
we cut brush and shovelled out twice and then , having learned not to trust any low part , we
way over there .
then he took up the oar with the knife lashed to it .
” “i’ve got to think about them too much .
the men in the holes in the side of the bank were sleeping .
" " won ' t you have a drink ?
lion had been trotting when macomber first shot .
" we had coffee at the iruña , sitting in comfortable wicker chairs looking out from the cool of the
but they were soldiers , so most of them got killed in those woods and when we took the three
" the gambler , the nun , and the radio they brought them in around midnight and then , all
i’d never seen a natural death , so called , and so i blamed it on the war and like
" " he ' s lonely .
“don’t you like this war ?
" you are already a man .
it’s all right around here .
" " i ' m not one of you literary chaps .
" i don ' t work for you any more .
had known they were getting close to him .
the driver backed the car out into the grass to turn it .
" " he can strike me too , " peroxide said .
" there ' s one american woman down here now that collects bull-fighters .
“i haven’t got any socks on .
in february we were here where we are now and the fascists attacked .
that was only a small sector .
this made the wicked lions very angry and one of the lionesses , who was the wickedest of them all
“are you germans ?
' how are your family ?
" romero turned to me .
" this gent .
cohn came down , finally , and we all went out to the car .
' ' i do .
the newly made catalan liquor most of them were drinking .
there he knew that he would see it on a clear day such as this was .
“i remember you in cheyenne the day tom horn was hanged , ” mr .
” “why did she go ?
“some day old henry will get the pope the same way .
' ' no , ' the colonel said , and his heart rose and he felt it choke him .
you take the car .
it has taken a dislike to me .
what the veterinaries won’t pass in the daytime .
she gave it all to me when she left .
will you sit in the sun in the doorway ?
” “maybe he’ll never come .
“very savage , father , ” the good lion replied .
of pines off to his right or his left .
or just a man who backs his play .
please don ' t get in any gondolas with him .
how could a woman know that you meant nothing that you said ; that you spoke only from habit and
” the little white man looked at nick .
what the moors have done now is no worse than what the english did under wellington .
and you can tell your principal that .
' i have known you a long time , colonel .
they take the first bunch of skins out to gallop them at _num_ : _num_ in the morning and they
” “salud , enrique .
and there were broken beams , broken tiles , and many holes , some of them yellow-edged from the mustard
the ones that we are going to stay at ?
they had cherry pie .
“have you any chili sauce ?
we have to roll .
" " listen , " the clean-cut young man said from the table where he was writing , " let
the shooter sat on a shooting stool fastened to the top of a box that contained his lunch and shells
the points of his tusks had touched the ground beside it .
to the music .
if i hadn’t been boxing i would have drunk quite a lot .
standing still now and spreading the red cloth of the muleta with the sword , pricking the point into the
i’d rather have been with the kids , he thought .
i told him i had scads of it .
the boat went on past , the two men who were fishing looking toward the booze boat and talking to
second time gilford and my old man started , was a rainy sunday at auteuil , in the prix du
we used to go out nearly every day all one summer .
i could do that with two pencils and a few hundred sheets of the cheapest paper .
barrera to be wiped , and put back in its case , he passed through into the callejon and leaned
” he pulled back the blanket from the indian’s head .
we had both heard the whunk of the bullet .
' i had just slipped into my trade unconsciously .
he did not want any consequences .
him back .
sitting around and dick had some cigarettes and all of a sudden the rabbit jumped up and beat it into
” “bring whiskey-soda .
_num_ to-morrow morning , i don ' t know the date , sir , and will absent himself from the
its neck was wrapped in silver foil and on its black and yellow label there was a horseman in armour
" " c ' est entendu , monsieur , " the patronne said .
" " oh , cut it out .
' other salt good ?
" " café select , " i told the driver .
always quietly and calmly let the horns pass him close each time .
our children ' s children--what of them ?
” “i’ll bet , ” nick said .
looking across the plain through the mist we could see some other masai coming along the road ; earth-brown skins
“so what happened ?
" i could not find the bathroom .
it was a big job to do for the two of them , working carefully around the eyes and the
charley simmons are on their way to being really a credit to the community .
water , tightening , all in a heavy , dangerous , steady pull .
i doubt if they will .
while we were waiting around i told the forceful girl i thought the whole thing was a pretty good story
macomber and his wife sat on at the table .
" " and if i do it you ' ll be happy and things will be like they were and
we have that all straightened out .
then you can only really follow anything in places where you speak the language .
“i don’t think if people gambled for what they could afford it would be very interesting .
tight until it grimped into itself in a hard knot .
the wind cool through the window .
know had dragged themselves through the gutter .
but now i’m tired .
he was tired and it felt good to lie back on the bed with two pillows folded under his neck
if he had been better with women she would probably have started to worry about him getting another new ,
“i’ll climb onto one of those ponies while you collect the kids , ” zurito said .
we must proceed so that we will never again fall into revolutionary adventurism .
but , of course , you couldn’t .
“you drank some liquor .
they’d buy them better from you , ” mr .
she’s going to have to make a new list when she finds everything is gone in the morning .
they killed general mcnair by mistake the day the valhalla express came over .
dye upon the paving , the sudden drop down the hill of the rue cardinal lemoine to the river ,
big as a five-peseta piece straight in back of the neck , between the sharp pitch of the bull’s shoulders
he wanted to get out of town and get in a good walk .
is that the correct way to say it ?
an interesting aspect of war , too , is that it is only there that the naturalist has an opportunity
clean and fresh .
he would go into town on saturday .
’ ‘thank you , ’ i said !
i’ve never been more frightened in my life .
' m ' cola went by with a load , his big , flat face completely blank again .
" " drink up , harris .
“i want to look around .
bill and i were very excited about pedro romero .
maxwell perkins on february _num_ , _num_ .
“‘did you do that many times ?
things he doesn ' t know .
the grass was wet on his hands as he came out .
light , all in a wild cloud of snow .
we were using kraut weapons so the noise would not alarm them if anyone heard the noise coming up on
“take ahold again .
do the moccasins chafe ?
" come on down-stairs and have a drink .
” “i’m still asleep .
“shut your goddam mouth .
he blew it up , his cheeks puffing ahead of the wine-skin , and stood on the bota holding on
john , and you can check it .
they’d have made me stay in the line all the time .
, was pleased .
roger ?
i couldn’t imagine how the gunner’s mate knew enough turkish to be insulting .
i ' m so ashamed about how things are .
but i don’t see how any real shooter can miss one .
is that what you want ?
it was very hot , but i kept on the shady side of the streets and went through the market
the critic of _el heraldo_ reached for the bottle of warm champagne that stood between his feet , took a
he felt it coming on again .
” “i hope not , ” nick said .
” “no dammit .
if you serve time for society , democracy , and the other things quite young , and declining any further
the dark clear water flowed fast and its rushing made bulges on the surface .
into the terrane of the bull-fighters .
“are we going to be like the others and have fights ?
a house , which , since it was over six miles from any military objective , had the good fortune
it ' s an old word .
“if anyone around here speaks english you’re liable to get shot , comrade , ” al said to him .
” “ja .
" think he called it a chain .
it is a thing you can see .
” asked the doctor .
“nothing , ” franz shook his finger .
it was funny there weren ' t any sharks though .
the place was crowded .
where do they cut that beech ?
it ' s eighty miles there and back .
' ' i like it very much , ' the colonel said .
he watched his lines to see them go straight down out of sight into the water and he was happy
won ' t it be lovely ?
” he had fallen for it .
“i got confidence , ” the nigger said .
the road ran on , dipping occasionally , but always climbing .
” “nothing much .
i asked him if he ever fished , and he said no , that he didn ' t care for
“henry j .
“approaching from the west .
under the strain of insufficient municipal water supplies , perceived outrages to national honor like the luridly reported urination on
very sound .
' ' you were certainly jolly .
too much .
” behind her she could hear them going through the weeds like beaters in a rabbit drive .
rod almost double , out of the boiling water at the foot of the falls , and swung him up
i believe he kept right on travelling and went out of that country .
' we will find where the camping place is .
down his broad back from head to tail .
droopy shook my hand and so did m ' cola .
his father drank a whiskey and water from the cup top on his flask as they lay and watched juma
' he did not understand the words but the tone made it clearer than if i had got something out
" aren ' t you going to stay and eat ?
' ' i have the road maps and the guides and that man who says where to eat and the
the woman who had been serving drinks came out wiping her hands on her apron and talked to somebody inside
well i was very methodical in those days and i kept original manuscripts in one cardboard folder and typed originals
" " you know i didn ' t believe it at first .
but what the ---- security is there better than i can give them ?
" that ' s all i seem to say .
there was no underbrush and the trunks of the trees rose sixty feet high before there were any branches .
one chink is going to bring those twelve out .
frazer said , " the hands are still good .
" well , horace , " doc fischer said as i came in the receiving room which smelt of cigarettes
all through their upper bodies .
then when they were finally back safely with the tusks after all the things that had happened and the tusks
“what class of pain do you have ?
all in and all the knowledge of them that i could express and i had rewritten and rewritten until it
' and you make lovely quick decisions .
the whole thing was different now , ’cause down in milan , even big races never seemed to make any
walcott comes out smiling .
' ' neither do i , ' the colonel said .
" " down is the best .
used a salamander , although i found them very often .
“this isn’t battalion headquarters as we used to know it .
he showed , trotting into the shallow , boulder-filled stream .
budapest was wonderful .
then , looking across the opening , wilson suddenly turned and said , “by god , there they are !
keep your temper , boy , he told himself .
“i brought you the fish for a present .
the light of the sign to check the oil and water and fill the tank .
if we are all right here we are doing just what we should do : staying out of sight until
" it was a wonderful time , " i said .
while we were waiting i saw a cockroach on the parquet floor that must have been at least three inches
he thought the cockpit was a hell of a sight , all right .
' old army boy , the colonel thought , before he hit him .
but we can fix it up really good tomorrow .
the rod under his right arm , nick stooped , dipping his right hand into the current .
" it isn ' t cold , yet .
training that way .
george went back through the swinging-door into the kitchen and untied nick and the cook .
plenty big business .
finally i made a last sight against what was left of the light and saw it was no use ,
" too many compatriots .
" we count on you , " fontan said .
anything .
' ' mummy would not mind .
“well , you’re the champion now , ” jack says to him .
they had put something over his face .
chapter xxxv the first day there , we lost the three battalion commanders .
him , and i admired him and respected him , but he was slow , and all the while we
“look , tu , ” he said .
, grey , white-striped , his horns a marvel , as he looked straight toward us over his shoulder .
" i dare say he is , " said mrs .
you can have a little more meat if you want it .
i’m disgusted .
” “what do you mean , harry ?
were only five members .
" " but i was going great when i got hurt .
” “should we take him ?
” “that nail thing’s pretty rough to try .
" very much .
look , i will show you a dance and sing a song .
" " hogan , " jack says .
we had a nice walk when we were hunting .
' this sausage was for bobby .
“it is the tune of the real revolution .
i spread the lunch on a newspaper , and uncorked one of the bottles and leaned the other against a
let ' s drive down toward hendaye .
“your father got a lot of this ?
it was the yellow gulf weed that had made so much phosphorescence in the night .
” “i wouldn’t want to be .
" " what medals have you got , mike ?
still we hoped to get the shape of the battle .
” “one of them knows you .
” “i won’t muss it , ” krebs said .
sudden showers in the mountains and the smell of the regiment like a copper coin in your mouth .
" he ' s drunk now , " he said .
” “i’d say you had a good chance .
” “i’ll go to the bank tomorrow and come down in the afternoon .
began to be alive with growing things .
voice and wanderobo-masai kept slapping me on the shoulder and jumping up and down and then one after the other
' ' sold to trust , ' the colonel said , this being the code designation of the task force
" " no , " the waiter who was in a hurry said , rising from pulling down the metal
“what do you make of that little guy ?
the young gentleman and the wife understood nothing .
” the mess boy had started them already , lifting the bottles out of the canvas cooling bags that sweated
" yes , " bill said .
' ' whisky better .
' ' i seek it , too , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
“i want to look at the road .
you go along .
he wrote a novel , and it was not really such a bad novel as the critics later called it
keep your drag light .
it clear of the coiled lines .
' ' that must be very pleasant .
" i will shoot the poor fellow , " the artillery officer said .
it would be unnecessary .
" she stood holding the glass and i saw robert cohn looking at her .
“sure , but you live in france , ” madame fontan said .
at that time wine was included in the price of the room and board at the luarca and the waiters
” “the boy won’t .
finally the bottle caps , picked up by m ' cola from the floor , we left , klaxoning the
' ' i don ' t know it .
the woman who owned the luarca was already asleep in her bed , where she lay on her back with
the place , now squirted another waiter .
" " all right , " said nick .
we have to go through some long bad slashings .
too clear .
and now we’re going to kill him .
there was a tug on the line .
education is an opium of the people .
” “it’s supposed to be bad for you .
the bar ?
prisoner of war in kenya and was a most amiable man , young , full of juice , handsome ,
” “you have the face of a russian .
one to her and i couldn’t get into her .
it’s barred but i forget and let the bars down .
tito has plenty problems .
” “it is still hot to ride , ” captain paravicini said .
” jack asked me .
they all have nairobi fast life or else rot about shooting beasts with horns half an inch longer than someone
" " let ' s get a car and all go as far as bayonne .
” “no , ” jack says .
i went back up-stairs and from the open window watched brett walking up the street to the big limousine drawn
go on up and see cohn .
when she looked at them they didn’t seem to be moving at all but if she went in and dried
just goes off like a cat .
“he’s all right , ” he said .
if their money doesn ' t come it ' s a cinch they won ' t get in to-night .
' ' how are things in turkey ?
" the girl wore a one-piece dress .
he had never been on this stretch of highway but he knew this part of the state and he was
' ' there you have me , ' ettore said .
that ' s you .
" i wonder what he did ?
about thirty inches ?
” “come on out to the kitchen .
i ate a very big meal and drank three bottles of rioja alta .
nick had circled around through the second-growth timber until they had come onto the old logging road .
“look .
' he took a long drink of it ; the type of drink peasants take from a flask .
then there must be the conception of what it can be and an absolute conscience as unchanging as the standard
i know it’s possible .
she had some letters and a telegram .
" two hundred and fifty pesetas , " retana said .
discouraged , or both , and he could go down to the rift valley the next day and kill some
barnes , " the count poured my glass full .
in another and carbons in another .
a mountain , and it was cut by the valleys of several watercourses that came down out of the thick
" " listen , " the detective said .
' ' yes , ' said pop .
but men were not and when some of the filaments would catch on a line and rest there slimy and
m ' cola knew it too , and we were hunting together now , with no feeling of superiority on
you know what they gave me ?
sure , if garrick didn ' t take his b ' wana simba car in there and shoot the country
i went into a bathing-cabin , undressed , put on my suit , and walked across the smooth sand to
coming back , he walked through the barroom , where people waiting for the train were drinking .
you know my theory ?
“it’s just around the corner from the garden .
pop and i were a little drunk and p .
and torino/cause if there ever were any easy courses , it’s those two .
the skiff .
" a votre santé , monsieur , " said the porter .
jack was just trying to block everything now .
his hands .
please don ' t let ' s ever talk about it .
our friend and his family did not come back .
they were not cyclist troops .
” red asked me .
i had black bean soup and a beef stew with boiled potatoes for fifteen cents .
did you always call it that ?
' ' yes , sir , ' the driver said .
_your_ saviour , undoubtedly _your_ saviour--and the ride for palm sunday .
in a hollow , and there was only the point of a spear in the sun , then they came
some of the stories had been about boxing , and some about baseball and others about horse racing .
" i ' m going to go and eat now .
" i ' m going away in the morning .
the maid closed it after me .
i wish we weren’t in on this damn thing .
he could see both ways on the road and he looked up the hill and then down to the dock
neither you nor i nor the _gran maestro_ are starving .
' we were too poor .
too fast .
he walked down the road , past the car and the big warehouse on the left where apples and potatoes
wednesday .
i was sorry for him and for what i knew i’d have to do .
“i will describe the strange and beautiful scene .
prisoner to fire off samples taken at random from the lot .
this damned old fool is so drunk , too .
” “that’s awfully close to the house .
there were no tracks .
on the short cut to the road .
i have loved but three women and have lost them thrice .
he felt the light delicate pulling and then a harder pull when a sardine ' s head must have been
by the time krebs returned to his home town in oklahoma the greeting of heroes was over .
since once we were in the timber we could no longer see them , i thought it was important that
“the free turkey at woolf’s , ” i answered .
the twilight , only it daylight in the woods and hemlock needles stuck against your belly .
of the ring , where the monos were leading a horse out by the bridle toward the bull , whacking
something better than there is , i suppose .
munitions which for some reason had not exploded , while others were put at extinguishing a fire which had gotten
he was delighted with italy .
the young sleep good , he thought .
then lousy .
“thank you , caro .
” the tall waiter said .
you oughtn’t to go out in the heat now—it’s silly .
the detective watching the door and the prisoner shifted the revolver so he held it by the muzzle and hit
“they were like the cochon .
" silver beer , bevo , ginger-ale , " george said .
and fun , his good side said to him , you have no fun when you do not love .
it wouldn’t look slack unless you knew about it because of the pull of the belly of the line in
“keep your heads down .
” “i watched his face .
but how do i get that condemned jeep engine to that old man ?
' ' i can kill the son of a bitch if i get a shot at him .
they were his standards in all except the shooting .
" so soldier went off on the train to town that same morning .
i know he would have liked to know you .
you couldn’t pull out any line .
" it ' s my real name , " alice said .
but it was a fair-weather breeze and he had to have it to get home .
at the end of that time you have shot everything and you are sorry for it .
there were so many left to find on another day .
andreson , you ought to go out and take a walk on a nice fall day like this , '
i ' m getting awfully slow , he thought .
firing and in the smoke that blew from the house one of the men who was on the gorund stood
cohn woke me when he came in .
four other men and he had been sent in to be under observation for a while and then sent to
” “no ?
i say , give a chap a brandy and soda .
" i have enough line to handle him .
champagne .
jack ' s sitting on the chair .
" " no , " says jack .
they were all very quiet .
station very small and the lake looking different and from a new angle and then we were out of sight
" " send them up when they come .
“it’s going to be a bitch , ” his father said .
“all right , ” said his father .
“i want to get them out as quick as i can , ” i told him .
and that you , personally , have much luck .
” “they do it in pictures .
“that was a good shot , ” wilson said .
i have not the money to buy it .
camp , and brett had her fortune told .
" " i can ' t stand to think about him waiting in the room and knowing he ' s
i said good-night and went out .
towns that looked so innocent and were really fortresses .
' i ' m all right .
" " he ' d lost it anyway , " john says .
“that’s united states mail .
“how many times did you shoot ?
" he always thought of the sea as la mar which is what people call her in spanish when they
go on to bed .
he was about middle height with sandy hair , a stubby mustache , a very red face and extremely cold
“she had packed all the manuscript folders in a suitcase and left the suitcase with her other bags in her
it isn’t until after he’s made his run that the fight starts .
he slipped back to the front of the house and , keeping out of sight , looked down the street
my nose was bleeding and i stood on the bow of the liner with my bare feet on the letters
“what’s yours ?
i ' m not as sharp now as i was ; whenever .
" " you ' re like fontan .
we could get along .
" " don ' t you think we ' ll wake them up , talking ?
' s end to beg during life .
the main highway ran past there joining the sea road and the cabins were toward the sea .
knew they did , but he said nothing of all that , only , ' whatever you say ' ,
“weigh him , ” jack says .
" two , " the old man agreed .
" if it was belmonte doing that stuff , they ' d go crazy , " retana ' s man
i went down and saw that o ' brien boy at police headquarters and told him that he ' s
there it’s cheerful .
” those were the same austrians they killed then that he skied with later .
everyone in the gondola looked cold and the colonel thought , i wish i could issue these wind-proof coats to
of some of the people .
little too much as a good man should , and , to her eyes , very handsome .
' ' the _gran maestro_ sent this , ' the second waiter said .
and meanwhile , stretched flat on a bed in a darkened room in his house in triana , manuel garcia
there were many good pieces of old jewellery in the window and they stood and looked at them and pointed
“daughter , i’ll take another if you want to make it .
” asked captain willie .
“there were two goats and a cat and then there were four pairs of pigeons .
let them think about it .
knows hell ' s own amount about people .
" i got in pretty bad shape along early last spring and at night it bothers me .
“what do you base it on ?
it was awfully early when i woke you .
" " we can do that , " the boy said .
call the town st .
the fear was still there like a cold slimy hollow in all the emptiness where once his confidence had been
” “i’ve got a lot of stuff , ” manuel said .
he kissed her but she did not wake and he put on his old mackinaw coat and felt in the
that ' s from my head .
twice pop had brought it out for droopy and finally m ' cola had said , ' give it to
' ' _ciao_ , ricardo , ' andrea said and that was all .
” as nick had left the edge of the town three shrapnel had burst high and to the right over
here for the first time .
i felt quite sure i was not going to be killed on that day now , since we had done
” the girl looked at the bead curtain , put her hand out and took hold of two of the
let’s not talk about them , ” nick said .
but mostly it was making up stories .
” she stopped .
” “he may die , ” doctor wilcox said .
“did you find the comrade you were looking for ?
' i am hurt , ' he said in astonishment , getting to his feet .
” nick was sitting down now and his sister sat on his lap and held her arms around his neck
' ' are you very cold ?
“what do we do ?
in places impossible to land them .
it took an indian to make money from sisal and on the coast every coconut plantation meant a man ruined
it was a bowl of pickled pig ' s feet and there was a wooden thing that worked like a
" " his face looks bad , " bill said .
but i don ' t want to own you .
the man called max sat at the counter opposite george .
day’s fresh shell holes neatly cut in the cement , their rubble still not swept away , on up the
” “you can’t help yourself .
" i says .
but i wish i could talk over certain things with him .
i put fifty cents on the wood and he straightened up .
altered , and in a short time the soil , once the sod is turned under , is cropped out
and was running naked , and the four of us were running now , full speed , like hounds ,
“is ole andreson here ?
then the tracks had all split up as they had gone , fan-wise , up the valley and the hills
" i handed him the package .
but it is good that we do not have to try to kill the sun or the moon or the
' ' let ' s neither of us be responsible .
i hope they split a good concussion between them .
he is one of the officers of the society .
and then they did not work right away .
” “i have nominated a scientist from vevey and a colleague of mine from lausanne and they were both elected
it looked like good country for rabbits and i tried to see some game but it went by too fast
poe is a skilful writer .
" " oh , no , sir , " she laughed .
if i ' d gone to bed last night i would not have done that .
" budapest is absolutely wonderful .
he didn ' t know what to do either .
" so , you said that .
i wish i could see the glow from the lights , he thought .
it was a grey , wet morning .
shall this be done by war or can it be done by peaceful methods ?
" i suppose if i ' d given you five francs you would have advised us to jump off the
' ' when you were talking about women .
if any supplies have come i’ll bring them down tonight .
' the rhinos had turned and were feeding .
the maitre d ' hotel said , ' my colonel .
he was not the same looking man as he had been before he had told her to go .
' he looked big to me and now he stood , his head up , broadside , his head swung
" " let up on that , mike .
" " i needed that , " brett said .
the cape , to re-charge as he swung the cape again , then again , and again , and again
one of the men in white smiled and handed retana a pair of scissors .
but i ' d like to get one that wouldn ' t look silly beside that dream rhino of his
the door was shut and i knocked .
“i’d forgotten what beer tasted like .
" " there ' s hard-boiled eggs .
i was getting so i could do it a little better but it would not fool anybody yet .
" a little more , " he said .
" trudy nodded .
wheeler watched her go out , then come in with the wine and bring it to his table .
nick eased downstream with the rushes .
we followed the porter with the truck down the long cement platform beside the train .
it was all right now .
what the hell is eating him ?
" he ' ll lose it , " he almost shouted .
" " i ' m glad it ' s her , " said guy .
he went back as soon as he saw us , then came out again .
he told her .
the sights of the rifle , quite calmly before squeezing off , the white flash and clublike impact , on
' please tell me if this bores you .
he had come up so fast and absolutely without caution that he broke the surface of the blue water and
" " they should be rescued from ignorance .
in other fondas , yes .
i hope there is nothing wrong with him , the bar-tender thought .
one eats very well .
all rights reserved , including the right of reproduction in whole or in part in any form .
cayetano’s better too .
” “did it ?
he’s going to have visitors .
spots ?
he knew he couldn ' t beat walcott .
are so god-damned beautiful you stink .
" it ' s five o ' clock .
fairly fast when the thing starts to move sort of like a forest fire .
i ' ve tried keeping away from it .
" think about something cheerful , old man , " he said .
” “i’m not , ” nick said .
the utter bloody fool .
” “what are you going to do to him ?
first a fellow boasted how girls mean nothing to him , that he never thought of them , that they
his face was sweaty and dirty .
' that ' s all .
nothing doing .
but who replaces this fish if i hook some fish and it cuts him off ?
“what do you say ?
” the grossness of the words was distasteful to fontan .
was sharp as a scythe and almost of that size and shape .
the rooms on the side of the grand canal .
_num_ d soldier—no , come on .
the dome of the dogana , ' ettore says he will try to move them , but he is afraid
“what’s the matter , nick ?
" " what did he want to kill himself for ?
i ' ve only got to-night .
romero listened very seriously .
“it’s gone .
" " it ' s hard to say , " nick adams said .
away off across the sun-hardened country .
” “he’s got a family and he’s got to eat and feed them .
see him as he went out so she could take the way he looked up to bed with her .
they thrust bent-kneed along the road into a pine forest .
so she had to go with it and in the dark they were running with it trying to go through
they said they oughtn ' t to let him fight .
” “mais vous êtes encore jeune , ” said the porter .
that would be the toughest fight .
was that a running shot ?
” the old man called as he passed .
" now , " he said , when his hand had dried , " i must eat the small tuna
the snow had crusted hard .
michel , passed the tables of the rotonde , still crowded , looked across the street at the dome ,
in the middle of the next bay .
" she turned to cohn and smiled at him .
“i’ve been writing , ” he said .
" he was crying without making any noise .
“i don’t know why it was .
“the one i saw is a splendid cabin .
the siren was on the radio ; it was part of an advertisement , and the announcer’s voice followed ,
“john collins is out with a couple of friends to see jack , ” i said .
then he knocked white boy cold .
the old man said the rain had come that day .
" " you ' ll be back soon ?
i won ' t try to explain what that means , daughter .
' who wrote _Æschylus_ ?
the barrel resting on my shoulder , and the sun hot enough to sweat you well as it burned the
' ' i love you , ' he said .
' ' i know now is enough , ' the colonel said .
' that ' s one of the things i would not know .
i stood on the rug and felt for my clothes at the foot of the bed .
it was nice out there but jack didn ' t like it much .
gee , the swell places .
" i wish i had that faculty .
to step clear , leaving the bull facing zurito on the white horse , come up and planted firm ,
i bet he’d go a thousand pounds .
god how i hate that word and how it was used .
” “i don’t mean for you to pay it , ” jack says .
the waiter , according to his ethics , makes no attempt to ever overhear a conversation .
" no one will castrate you .
' ' it was very pretty , ' dan said .
it was time for us to go back .
i had a date with this thing here .
now is the big season .
the quaint little spanish fiesta .
it must be stored in a new and unsuspected place and in one where it will not deteriorate .
_num_ : _num_ - _num_ - _num_ - _num_ visit us on the world wide web : http : //www
on the section of the creek where they would hit if they cut across his pasture on the other side
" he had been going splendidly , but he stopped .
] _num_ st roman soldier—you see his girl ?
' _piga kongoni m ' uzuri .
“i could take it , ” the man said .
“you better watch out to keep prudie , nick .
passes .
the point will be up anyway .
up , pulled a box of solids out of his pocket and brought them over to macomber , who filled
" " they ' re just english , " mike said .
in the rain we made our way back to the lorry .
' pop asked me .
“i’d like to be wemedge , ” kate said .
” george shifted his position in the bed .
' ' we haven ' t asked for the little negro that will look after me .
the motor boat was tied beside the dock .
want me to stunt it ?
but instead of him running the fight it was walcott was running it , instead of being safe all the
" didn ' t you send him with a letter to me in new york last winter ?
all the concentration of the awkwardly delicate working with the bull that could not see well brought it out .
” he said , lying with his head on the planks , facing away from them .
' ' you can have them if you like , if you like stones .
“i’m hungry , ” he said .
he was afraid that it might nauseate him and he would vomit and lose his strength .
sitting up , then huddled over , then slumped on the floor , until it was over , feeling his
, deep as a deep mine , that is within them .
you didn’t mind the women who were having babies as you did those with the dead ones .
” “the hell you have .
" just in the gym .
and i am sure many times too that i slept without knowing it--but i never slept knowing it , and
at least he carried lists of horses at all times in his pocket and frequently spoke the names of horses
' ' you ought to write , ' the girl said .
what do you ever get up for ?
side of the ring , where the monos were leading a horse out by the bridle toward the bull ,
“i think you’re going to have a chance to fight one today , mr .
“it’s not supposed to be , ” the waiter said .
gossip was the best thing he did and he always knew something new and highly discreditable about anyone you could
" i wasn ' t drinking it , anyway .
' but rather vainly .
' ' do people like you have names and serial numbers ?
that attitude you only get from the best of the english , the best of the hungarians and the very
” and paco slipped forward on the chair , the apron cape still held , enrique pulling on the chair
” “you can’t tell .
and we don’t want to kill anybody .
“how does the day look ?
' ' is there anything ?
manuel stepped to the side and raised his arms , tightening the cape ahead of the bull for the verónica
” “grow up , ” he said .
suddenly there came the mechanical crescendo of a siren and the young man felt a prickling wave go over his
" " i don ' t know now .
she said god would bless me .
" oh , yes , " william campbell said , speaking directly against the sheet and feeling the texture with
" they ' re lovely hills , " she said .
billy came through the trees .
isn ' t that what you got me in on this trip for ?
' the waiter , who had been in the desert , smiled and was gone and the colonel turned to
” “when they wheel and light and then move so proud and friendly and gently , ” nick said .
' ' you sleep here .
it only came alive about hunting or some joke .
' ' no , ' i said .
“he got many people out here now ?
' my old man ' s jack brennan .
i wondered where cohn got that incapacity to enjoy paris .
he would get him some day .
" he ' s going to kill now , " i said to brett .
you can laugh if you want .
' ' there , ' she said .
also i wanted to shoot , selfishly , and karl was unselfish .
" one time i went out with papa and he shot a jack-rabbit just a little bit and i shot
" i do this for you .
if there were women in the room he stared at them .
' you great beauty you .
" then thanks , " the young man said , not " thank you , " or " thank you
sight-seeing cars came up , too .
' masai many cattle .
before andrew was born .
“where will you be ?
you ' ve used it well enough .
bill poured the glass half full of whisky .
" fuentes came up with the muleta and the sword .
he was very hungry .
he had not had that prickle when he started .
everybody gets what they want .
sometimes the bad lions ate people too .
" " this place is pretty good , " i said .
he made over fifteen thousand dollars there in the capital alone .
“why didn’t you let him stay and drink ?
go as far as you can in the car and then use it for a base and hunt on from
she studied her profile , first one side and then the other .
" " who cut him down ?
but they all read a paper called " the stars and stripes " and you had to get your unit
" really , " romero said in spanish .
wheeler was thinking that it was very inexpensive sport .
“we are friends of he who wounded him .
he took another drink of the champagne .
" he looked at the wall .
the gate and a couple of guys stopped near us while we were waiting for the crowd to get through
there were only two rooms in the apartments where they lived and he had a room on the top floor
but tell me again .
our lord .
they don ' t have to work this afternoon and there is no reason why they should not get drunk
deal of style , a fine hunter and a beautiful tracker .
whatever that means in american .
i got in wrong .
' remember not to say , chin-chin .
when there was no snow you gambled and when there was too much you gambled .
crows .
” said his father .
, you didn’t have to drink because you were lonesome did you ?
' i did indeed , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
" " don ' t look at the horses , after the bull hits them , " i said to
it was his first strike .
during romero ' s first bull his hurt face had been very noticeable .
now the sureness was gone .
” “no , ” he said ; “one-half when you start to load and the other when you are finished
_num_ from david angrily .
" your friend , is he aficionado , too ?
he did not recognize the man in the launch that was first on call , but the boatman said ,
, him running with the bunch , shoulder higher than them and black as hell and as i saw it
“you are wrong , comrade .
no !
give me ten francs and i’ll bring you the change .
nickie knows a lot of country .
his dangerous game and things might pick up .
" " some people have god , " i said .
we crippled three others .
nor really how they fought then .
then , in town , they will fix up your leg and then we will have some good destruction .
a boatman he knew .
in london .
” “i think i’m going all right .
" why , hello , robert .
the cocked gun , behind my back , made me black angry .
the critic looked up to see zurito , directly below him , leaning far out over his horse , the
only all day and all night .
" is it a system always to respond in a different language in switzerland ?
” he asked me .
' ' to write as well as i can and learn as i go along .
” “weren’t you going to get married ?
' kamau asked me .
put her ahead with all the machine !
we can talk about you and how beautiful you are .
" " chap bought it for me .
you were with me and you were asleep like a baby .
i felt for the heart behind the foreleg with my fingers and feeling it beating under the hide slipped the
“don’t you make them big eyes , ” he said .
inside something seemed to explode .
" hey , bright boy , " max said to nick .
” “hell no , ” i said .
the light of the world when he saw us come in the door the bartender looked up and then reached
“well then , ” i said , “now you haven’t any problem .
listen .
” “i’d rather not hear .
political party .
do you think i hold that against a man after we ' ve won ?
and he ' d be dangerous .
the car toward camp .
” “you don’t need to be , ” nick told her .
” “eat first .
except one hundred dollars he gave me to pay the consul and clear and get some grub and put gas
we made our way back and down and told the others .
it was not his face but it didn’t make any difference .
i sent them looking down three possible ways and got out on the rim to try to sight him .
' ' she is forgotten , ' the colonel said .
but she ' s lovely .
it carefully and oil it well .
" you ' ve made a new one there , " i said to her .
' they went out into the street and the sunlight and the unremitting wind .
" " oh , for chrisake , " the sergeant said .
at him close .
same .
“perhaps we should all be faithful , ” the matador said .
' chapter v but he continued to look and it was all as wonderful to him and it moved him
tanks .
the photographs of bull-fighters montoya had really believed in were framed .
the young gentleman felt relieved .
them and continue to exploit the country .
" sure , " said manuel .
' ' i think it may be because , with the full moon , he feeds all night .
the taxi coasted down a smooth street to the puerta del sol , and then through the traffic and out
” “we were sent here by the police , ” the smallest one said .
the best one we can get .
the man turned without saying anything , and started back up the white road into spain .
you certainly were worthless with them .
oh , i ' m getting all mixed up .
i ' m quite warm .
we were back trailing when we heard the porters on the hillside shout and we ran crashing through the grass
” “don’t let anybody shoot you in the back .
' porters don ' t cost as much as petrol .
nick was embarrassed .
in the early morning on the lake sitting in the stern of the boat with his father rowing , he
' so he said : ' what medals have you , sir ?
' ' yes , sir , ' jackson said .
it ' s your car , sir .
everybody stood up .
" " come off it , michael .
we hunted the ridges until dark but never saw them again nor did karl find them the next day when
the men shoved and lifted it with crowbars into position against the gate .
do you think you can be ruined morally by just one thing like that ?
could tell which way the wind blew by simply scattering dust .
he shook hands with every one , explained that to a fascist and a man as used to travelling as
lashed at them .
the dust had been bad , but in spain the roads were better than in france .
" bill went down the bank .
' ' then the clergy .
we’d seen tankers going up the gulf for quite a while .
“too much like a butterfly .
the day , the finest one there is , and looking at the thick bush we passed in the dark
" " you ' d never have gotten here .
' yes .
“in all your horror and your beauty— don’t clown , baldy .
he took hold of it .
that’s funny now .
tomorrow they won’ have anything to drink , and then they’ll be sorry .
” the wind blew cool on them and the noise the palm leaves made was almost like rain and after
i could see the rings on one of her hands .
" they beat me , manolin , " he said .
” “i’m not sleeping , ” jack said .
” “equally to you , ” i said .
there was plenty of wood cut and he built a very small fire and made tea while he waited to
' he seems very confident .
going down in the elevator made him feel hollower than ever inside .
he sank gently , first going off to one side , then sinking head first .
low as he was , no foot-hills showed and the mountains rose abruptly from the plain .
“he’s a pretty smooth boy , ” hogan said .
it does give me pleasure , you know .
bait for fishing , minnows , not worms only .
he’s been a member for a great many years .
don’t be weak and indecisive now .
it is fresh from kandoa , unsalted .
it ' s not dignified .
" " it ' s silly , " edna said .
so he tells her he ' s tired , and goes to bed , and when she goes to the
“but we fought .
he was in the war , too .
the trail was used regularly by cattle and the dust was powdered dry and , now , lightly moistened from
” “why they’ll probably come through it all right .
i can insert anecdotes to make it interesting , or plausible .
, carrying his coat because one sleeve was missing .
supplies to open the hotel and he hanged himself .
from the madeleine i walked along the boulevard des capucines to the opéra , and up to my office .
“it is better so , ” she thought .
” “we will , ” he said .
there was a light east breeze coming up and we put up plenty of flying fish , those big ones
' ' you should tell that to our writer friend with the craters of the moon face so he could
' ' i couldn ' t be better , ' the colonel said .
a word of .
great brown mountains .
" et vous , monsieur ?
' ' about pictures and about books and about life .
" now is no time to think of baseball , he thought .
and the bull-fighter chap hit him in the face again .
if he thought about it , he would be gone .
from the moment he left the barrera and went toward the bull they applauded him .
he was delighted with his experiment and they developed it as far as possible .
' ' have i told you , yet , properly , that i love you ?
but why does he have to beat me so _bloody_ badly ?
” he gestured with the bottle .
" " don ' t you think it , " joe said .
of them had , and you made an attitude that you cared nothing for the work you used to do
" " oh , shut it and go and get your hair cut .
should have the first shot but since it was the first lion any of us had ever shot at ,
' ' you must remember him , ' karl said to her .
” the two at the bar looked over at the two at the table , then looked back at the
and the other part of his brain said , hail heel .
they went into the cedar swamp , moving as softly as deer .
when he brought her home i thought i would die .
he made four veronicas like that , and finished with a half-veronica that turned his back on the bull and
” the innkeeper asked .
” the wave rolled them over and over holding tight onto each other his legs tight around hers .
“i hope we’re not disturbing you .
” “a cat ?
political general .
' a double .
' ' i agree , ' the colonel agreed .
“thank you , ” the old man said .
' ' is it o .
now they passed coral gables to their left with the buildings that looked out of the basso veneto rising from
“when they’re high enough up they don’t give a damn what they say .
he made a big shadow on the kitchen wall .
the far hills , and come down to the irati valley , " i pointed out to bill .
then we started south on the cape to cairo road , here well graded , smooth , and carefully cut
trunk as the hair of young women parts and blows forward when they stand with their backs to a storm
be careful , nickie , and let it blow over .
brett was sitting looking straight ahead at nothing .
" " it ' s hot .
" who are your friends ?
' ' you ' ll be back , ' pop said .
" " i am demonstrating the american uniform , " nick said .
he looked at him sitting beside him on the seat .
lewis but this man araquistain who invented him ?
their feathers .
” “do you want me to steer ?
i sat up by the table—” “doing what ?
" i wouldn ' t not have seen it .
i ' m a basso piave boy and a grappa boy straight here from pertica .
' i do not want anything but i notice that you never give me presents .
but he knew he would shiver himself warm and that soon he would be rowing .
the boys at first were very polite about my medals and asked me what i had done to get them
he had written the start of all he was to do .
" we got the daughter of the house over and each had a fine à l ' eau .
” nick adams came up past george , big back and blond head still faintly snowy , then his skis
i never get into bed before three o ' clock .
i sat there steering and i looked at him and i thought , hell , he’s as well off dead
" i put one hand on the small of my back and the other on my chest , where it
” “the back .
we’d keep right on running out toward the mountains and then my old man would yell , “hey , joe
in the monotonous pine and scrub palmetto of the cattle country .
' so we told karl and he said : ' whatever you say .
“i’m through with it .
the inn .
he’d been on plenty of operating-tables before .
then , as i looked up , i saw eddy coming along the dock looking taller and sloppier than ever
” “ah , ” said mr .
avoided , and i had not seen this girl doing it before .
and free to shoot for the meat we needed .
we were supposed to shoot .
i saw the bright flash as it burst and another little cloud of smoke appeared .
i shook my finger and commenced to crawl forward to be clear of the bush , sick afraid the bull
" " the greatest italian sense .
i could only get as far as " on earth as it is in heaven " and then have to
' ' he coughed once and went away , ' i said .
everybody knew him and they called him blindy which is a good name for a blind man in that part
for several years , lay on its side in the grove of birches that bordered the cedars by the stream
' sonsabitches .
" " fifty lire .
they aren’t worth a damn now .
so that it was as he had found it .
' i ' m tired of seeing you , because you worry and you don ' t have fun .
“that always helps a lot , don’t it ?
on the left toward the head of the valley .
she tells me all about everything .
” the cook felt the corners of his mouth with his thumbs .
i forgot to give bobby the sausage .
one in each hand .
" " don ' t you want to ?
the two policemen tore out , collared him , one hit him with a club , and they dragged him
” “but does it hurt always ?
" " hombre , si .
" " don ' t be a fool , " i said .
she was watching , fascinated .
a little standing outside the lodge on the gravel of the embassy driveway .
it was a fiesta and it went on for seven days .
i ' m clean and you know it and men like me , even though i ' m big ,
i sat at the foot of the bed and read to myself while i waited for it to be time
we could see the crowd walking there , all the fashionably dressed people .
' who had trieste in that war ?
beside him sat the cook .
it was cold with the sun under the clouds in spite of the heaviness of the air after rain .
he no longer had his greatest moments in the bull-ring .
it was miura bulls , and a very bad bull-fight .
crying .
" i walked away from the café .
for the north american newspaper alliance .
and what is mine ?
it seems to be necessary to them .
“speak grammatically !
they are excellent soldiers , he thought .
“i know no one in that direction , ” he said , “but thank you very much .
the money and the paybooks .
" i say , can a chap sit down ?
he puts everything in a book .
chapter ii but he was not a boy .
as a roller came i dove , swam out under water , and came to the surface with all the
hah !
“a bottle to carry it , ” said the young gentleman .
“i’m hernandez , ” he said and put out his hand .
' well , did you get one ?
are you warm enough ?
“didn’t you see it when you came in ?
" that ' s a hell of a reason .
yet warm , as they take warmth and as all good stones have warmth , from his bad hand into
member of the order but whom he did not wish to offend .
the coffee-boy looked away , embarrassed .
there will be a regular cuadrilla out there .
” “certainly , ” he said .
now we could see their horns clearly with the glasses and could see the other three .
she handed the flask to macomber who handed it to wilson .
“it is my country , ” she said .
be ?
" oh , " he said , " i told you all that once .
didn ' t i ?
as he walked he saw all the pairs of shoes , small shoes and big shoes , outside the doors
he never worked on a ranch before , and the man that owns the ranch said to fontan that he
” “he can do plenty of other things .
' we had lunch and afterwards i went into the tent and lay down and read .
they were on the teruel front and now they have come here .
he grinned at david and at his father and took a .
more dogs rushed out at them .
“he’s got a mean face .
but still it was more money than the colonel had .
“you or me ?
about this length of boot and whether the bootmaker , whose part i had taken , unwittingly first , only
" you want to do anything now ?
" i went back to bill .
" we ought to toast something .
' do you want me to send that man there ?
it was very interesting but there were no results .
the trunks were straight and brown without branches .
besides , i ' ve been going good lately .
at bologna he said good-bye to us to go on the train to milano and then to aosta to walk
" " wonderful , " said bill .
i’ll read wuthering heights .
m ' cola looked at him and shook his head .
” tommy said .
" " you are in love with this girl now ?
“play the cucaracha another time .
he saw his father and juma talking and when he got up to them juma was looking back over the
' with all my heart .
" what ' s the sense in spending money sooner than necessary ?
my christ , it’s been a long time .
but it is not pleasant to have a time limit by which you must get your kudu or perhaps never
" do you know what a bugger is ?
there was the small moor ' s head .
” at that time he was spending all kinds of money around women trying to make himself seem a man
there weren’t no more cars come and i walked in .
we planned this all out , pop consulting with droopy , and then sent the lorries off with dan to
who gives a damn anyway except me and the _gran maestro_ and this girl ; i mean at command level
“just because you’ve chased some helpless animals in a motor car you talk like heroes .
" it doesn ' t matter now .
" i opened the door and went in , and set down my suitcase .
“can’t we speak decently ?
“well , i tell you now .
' ' yes to both questions .
he lay down again .
' ' good-bye , sweet .
“take this stuff , will you , and send it to my brother in n .
what do you want to do with the people ?
had him pass it to the wanderobo-masai .
go .
the balls of the feet touched .
" he just told him to go back to town .
" his straw hat was far on the back of his head and he sank down into the bow with
' ' i ' d look straight through her to show her how dead she was .
" we ' ll want to ride out to the bois for dinner ?
“boy that’s wine , ” al said .
“so that’s war .
the old gentleman took out from an inside pocket of his coat a leather pocketbook .
" it ' s an honest face .
i sat in front of the marinas for a long time and read and watched the people , and listened
“you’ll recognize him any time you see him .
' t .
“go on , ” he said , “if you want to .
" " oh , he ' s going to die , i ' m afraid .
' ' were they not good ?
" go and get him .
' the hyena was a dirty joke but bird shooting was a clean joke .
too far , the lights of cojimar , and steer in and run along to bacuranao .
a pursuit race william campbell had been in a pur suit race with a burlesque show ever since pittsburgh .
” “like religion , ” said the thin one .
] when the weight starts to pull on ’em .
looks like some of the hills around verdun .
” she turned and looked at him and smiled and shook her head .
" he kept on singing until he came down-stairs .
" " why don ' t you give him an overdose of morphine ?
" nicolo , " paravicini called .
he ain ' t with the others .
i went back to the hotel and maera was on the balcony looking out to see if i’d be bringing
" tom asked .
let me go in alone .
“your father is worried , too , ” his mother went on .
“you’re supposed to fine them .
there were no old people .
but nick buried the bottle of whiskey up behind the spring .
we jumped many waterbuck and once , still hunting along a ridge with a steep gully below , we came
the radio can almost make the voice .
' ' he died .
he put one of his feet on the fish and slit him quickly from the vent up to the tip
now it is over , he thought .
" that to be something or other needs but to be seen .
felt a strange hollow singing in his heart .
a man and a woman sat at the far end of the restaurant .
' ' it is their right .
but god help me to avoid brutality .
see the little wicked eyes and the head started to lower and he felt a sudden white-hot , blinding flash
you can ' t tell ; maybe this is the one that gets it .
] _num_ d soldier—i don’t want any more .
he came out of the hotel again .
” “carl can’t get a girl , ” his mother said , “not even a squaw .
“listen jerry , ” jack says .
before the second one went over the crest i could see him drawing his pistol and holding it ahead of
" there has never been such a fish .
' they killed several men from the academy at gettysburg .
the traps , and the drum came down the corridor .
“happier than now .
“you like music ?
“i’ll clear in the morning and pull out at dark .
' take a shot of this , ' he said to the boatman .
“how the hell do you get that way ?
is there water to carry us there ?
“and a fellow i used to know who’s in tanks .
in time , hemingway came to love all of spain—its customs , its landscapes , its art treasures , and
' except , ' he added .
i didn ' t get that from any kraut either .
what i mean is , when the time comes .
in the middle of the road up ahead and every time any vehicle goes through they have to run over
it was as smooth and undistinguished now , as it was all along the river .
it was cheerful and the noise of the inhalations and exhalations of the accordion , and of the bells ,
” he showed on the map how the attack had gone .
i had different ways of occupying myself while i lay awake .
“now if you—” “if me what ?
and the crashing of another rhino that had gone out of the lower end of the reeds and on under
' ' burn them , ' the colonel said .
" but it ' s dangerous when it ' s rough .
” “what did you have against him ?
say , it was a treat to see my old man skip rope , too .
them ?
“he was a murderer you know , davey , ” he had said .
all along the old walls and ramparts people were standing .
this is the wrong attitude to take , he said to himself ; since he did not wish to express
" you wouldn ' t like the way i write .
came over from france that time .
“hold it tight .
" sure it ' s true , " he said .
" what a box to sweat in !
” “daughter , isn’t new orleans a fine place ?
came down--we always came down .
again there was the shock and he felt himself being borne back in a rush , to strike hard on
but you understand ?
” “who was he ?
when nick stopped quite close to him he did not move .
this was different , this was no rapid fire , no pouring it on him as he comes groggy into
any time you can better one , go ahead .
let him begin to circle and let the fight come .
firm , the muleta curving and at each swing the crowd roaring .
in war .
the beach , and the geese were afraid of them and so were the women .
the sergeant did not answer .
we were not astride , technically , because we did not have enough people to set up on both sides
" why not have me do it ?
she stood beside him on the road and he put his hand on her head and stroked it .
he smiled at the face in the mirror and it grinned back at him .
that wine is cheap and these have paid for it .
it’s the pace you’re going at , that makes riding the jumps dangerous , joe .
” “you see ?
rapid .
there were a few tommies that showed minute and white against the yellow and , far off , he saw
there’s liable to be a hell of a lot of trouble .
' ' sleepy is all .
so it is murder , the colonel thought .
manuel and hernandez stood in front .
, to end winding the bull around him in his great media-verónica , and walk swingingly away , with bull
from the tracks it did not seem a particularly large one .
' the colonel , who was four star general now , in his wrath and in his agony and in
' ' and you are most beautiful and i love you .
the town was full of people .
aloud .
i just meant i didn ' t remember when duck shooting was good .
" he turned to smile at me .
' ' two very dry martinis , ' the colonel said to the bartender , ' and a glass of
” “what does ?
all you could see would be a rush of black .
" " to marry some one else .
' ' do you see the boy with the wave in his hair , that is natural , and he
“soissons’s way the hell back .
“it isn’t ready yet .
we got off with our bags and rod-cases and passed through the dark station and out to the lights and
” “my poor daughter .
" " they ' re a fine lot , " i said .
drink it .
" all i want is an even break , " manuel said reasoningly .
“ten years at least .
" potsdam .
he came out , crawling under the cheesecloth .
" he said to bill .
houses were in relation to the fields and the thickets ; hunting the country in his mind as he went
' ' tell me .
were propped against the wall of the stick and mud house , leaning there with their points touching , the
“well , ” i said to guy , “you wanted to eat some place simple .
i never looked toward him , and m ' cola , kamau , and i could not look at each
off short between the elbow and the shoulder , the back of the hand having hung down against my back
it was a movement without hope .
“we only have double rooms , ” the clerk says .
then he threw a left hook .
“how do you feel , jimmy ?
' ' did they talk like that out west when you were a boy ?
that has always seemed silly to me .
his head on the table .
” “flat on the back upper rafter .
” “walpole’s a classic , too , ” bill insisted .
" " come on , " mike said .
but it did not bend yet , and instead the machine lurched when it came to the bending part .
a basso gli ufficiali !
everybody in our town quit work to go on relief .
i ' ll do it , or i will get one off some joker and have it cut down for
and the bull , the red sword hilt tight between his shoulders , his head going down and his legs
” “then shot in the belly .
i shot back making the same silly noise .
he wished he was a fish , no he didn’t .
” “well , what did you have to hit me for ?
priests from galicia who were sitting at a corner table and drinking if not too much certainly enough .
he would miss that one .
" but you haven ' t got the boy , he thought .
cape spread wide , stopped , swung on his heels , and brought the bull sharply around facing zurito .
we had been there on that plowed field men could not cross and live .
he seemed glad to sit down .
he could see their wide , flattened , shovel-pointed heads now and their white-tipped wide pectoral fins .
” al asked his friend .
he had run across the field on our right beyond the farmhouse when he saw the first jeep come up
' ' you said please without a pause before it .
' ' i haven ' t shot any yet , ' i said .
" " where ' s cohn ?
she liked it how much d .
the swampy second growth as nick and marjorie rowed along the shore .
" just like you want him , " retana ' s man assured him .
" that ' s all right .
" but i don ' t want you to , " he said , " i don ' t care
madrid kills spain .
i can live on tick at this pub in saint jean .
" he was the best guitar player ever in this town .
smell of the smoke of the fire , the smell of my boots steaming , and , where he squatted
“i’ll go with you and i’ll stay with you all the time .
they hung from the roof in bunches .
as i jumped from the car and sprinted after them they rocketed up , their legs tucked close beneath them
' as well as any place .
this is the best part of life .
“i want to go all by myself and shoot all by myself .
there is very much sensation in that hand .
we have had a day .
he came over , still angry that the headwaiter had gone over his head and served al .
" " i remember , " the old man said .
smith were cooking for four days for them before they started .
" " have another absinthe .
but , littless , you’ve made things sort of hard now and we better go .
” “a convertible with good rubber .
“i’m going to see plenty moors tomorrow without having to fool with them tonight .
austrians had dug .
you don’t have to act like a moving picture .
i have wanted to come all day .
it means for pleasure .
and in tortugas , where i ' d spent months , a thousand men once died of yellow fever .
the second load driving through onto the bird already dead in the air .
both the man ' s arms were by his sides , his head went back as the horn went in
bill won the second .
decision to make and don ' t know just whom to trust most i dare not ask my parents--and so
, and the next time you passed it riding in a truck , and the next time you were coming
only i ' d a hell of a lot rather not talk about it .
i’ll stop that .
beside him too were the two gun-bearers chattering in wakamba .
it was off to the right in the forest and the tracks of the old bull led to it .
” then when they were past the broken country and climbing toward the forest the tracks of the elephant turned
two of our basques came in and insisted on buying a drink .
the man was urging two tourists to buy .
harry could not hear what they were saying .
“i know that .
' forget it .
” “i must work , ” the waitress said .
then you wouldn ' t worry .
“could i have a drink of water ?
' don ' t get sore about it , ' i said .
i must cushion the pull of the line with my body and at all times be ready to give line
" i gave brett what for , you know .
to terminate .
so the prince didn ' t come and the king didn ' t come , and no one wore any
it is too much like those boys who used to be sent to paris with two years in which to
” “we’re either going to have to stop to get something to eat or else get sandwiches and eat them
" " helps what ?
you ' ll never know .
he wished he had brought something to read .
then without taking a step forward , he became one with the bull , the sword was in high between
' the _gran maestro_ said to tell you , as you embarked , that this bottle of wine was his
he ' ll bleed when i start him going and that will bring it down .
then he ran his bad hand through her hair once , twice and three times and then he kissed her
they were both laughing under the heads .
" there ' s the whole river between them and you .
i won’t take one on board until i have it .
” then she said , “the other one is jealous .
if you have to put it on wet it won’t hurt on a hot day like this .
may i tell him where to go ?
he could do this .
he’s been there since the start .
wemedge , ” odgar said .
buffalo could have charged us each time we shot if he liked .
" very interesting , very interesting , " the major said , and handed it back to the doctor .
” “come on , baldy .
do i talk funny ?
shot it .
frazer’s mind , grew so steadily and increasingly obscene that there being no one to appreciate it , he finally
he ' s a cold one , though .
” nick climbed the embankment and started up the track .
he knew at least twenty good stories from out there and he had never written one .
" my package .
continuing of his mother ' s grave .
but after that each time after you shoot you turn and look out into the sun on the water and
i swear to god i have .
well , we hooked another one around noon and he jumped off .
we got to get back there before daylight .
” “or that they didn’t back up and deploy .
' ' what happened then ?
i wonder what the sea looks like from that height ?
" i say , i have a thirst .
" they ' ve got seven cars of them from dayton , ohio .
he hits the longest ball i have ever seen .
security of manipulation .
' ' not really .
“i’d be too excited .
they just let the air in and then it’s all perfectly natural .
brett wore a black , sleeveless evening dress .
' ' i have none of those , ' she said , speaking grammatically as her governess had taught her
wheels going very fast away up ahead and a river valley down below us and then i looked around and
” “listen , ” i told him .
“it is alcohol that mounts to my head .
let me know about anything .
" " and frankie fritsch .
language that i could not understand .
, and feel them if you were lonely .
you tell me .
' where ?
s- _num_ advises that s- _num_ wants red to button up by _num_ .
' and hands you more shells .
a wheel still spinning .
“i just heard it somewhere .
" " that ' s the way men are , " his wife said to us .
' make an admirable breakfast , ' i said out loud .
' we bring up a couple of heavy guns and droopy goes in after him with one article less of
” we’d come in that town at one end and we were going out the other .
” “don’t think , ” i said .
inside the port hole that was closest i could see something but i couldn ' t make it out through
it was bright and cold and the air came cold through the open wind-shield .
why should i perpetuate ignominy just with my mouth ?
wilson looked at him appraisingly .
on the screen they advanced over the hill irresistibly , mounting the crests like great ships , to crawl clanking
his whisper that was as barely audible as a silent dog whistle heard close to the ear , ' i
' do you like to fight ?
“i could make it with my clothes on , ” jack said .
' ' we ' re going to chuck all this , ' pop told p .
he ' s headed almost east , he thought .
and he was the biggest dentuso that i have ever seen .
the lion was dead .
her course , spreading havana out astern and then dropping it off behind us as we brought the mountains up
dinner was served , toward the city hospital which was on a high hill that overlooked the smoke , the
" " you need it too badly to pay for your own mother ' s grave to keep your mother
' ' truly , my colonel .
“on dit , mais on ne sait jamais , ” madame fontan said .
“let them beat through the weeds for the other side , ” the lieutenant in the front seat said .
rod-case to go to burguete .
forgive her , and be grateful to her , and she expected , absolutely unexpectedly , to be married in
" the old man looked at him .
the committee .
it is not my trade .
the people would not like it .
the snow driving like a sand-storm , he knew the pace was too much .
” “sam’s gone out , ” george said .
he sliced the ocean wide open .
" i asked edna .
i ' ll be in the chapel praying .
we’ll be jolly enough .
, and then i bought some things to take home to my wife and our three girls .
“it is normal , ” the first soldier said .
“you want to get in the game ?
can we reconcile the two ?
sponge hook .
you can do anything .
" john asked when jack was dressed .
not knowing .
” nick cocked the gun and hardly taking aim pulled the trigger , blowing a hole as big as your
come on in back and have a drink .
he jammed the tiller , made the sheet fast and reached under the stern for the club .
" " that makes nothing .
“boy i got a headache .
johnson , you’re just unlucky .
he was only tired .
and don’t give me any pep talk either because we’ve got a political commissar and i know what i’m fighting
i saw her this morning .
edna was the girl ' s name .
that will stake the kids while we are gone .
you might as well look , too , ” nick said to the signallers .
" he ' s a pretty tough-looking boy , " jack says to me .
” “i’ll make it very weak and put canned cream in it .
” “please , darling , let’s not talk .
” “what’s yours ?
there were not even cart ruts sunk in it .
" he looked at her across the table .
what did you get ?
you might as well take them in .
” “you fight ?
i’ve loved the country .
' ' do you still have the stones and did miss portrait help any ?
you were never alone in spain and it felt good for a change .
" " want to take a nap ?
“lock the cabin , ” i said , when they were all in .
along it and the dust rising .
“i love it under a sheet , ” he said .
at a little before eleven i saw the two lights show on the point .
george watched them eat .
would never have met ; except me , and i was a mistake .
absolute best hell .
in a little while we were in camp .
you couldn ' t tell what they were .
” “do you feel anything strange ?
then the plain was behind us and ahead there were big trees and we were entering a country the loveliest
knowing him , and knowing the place in the old days , it would be perfectly understandable .
” “no , sir , ” i said .
you most certainly could not tell a damned thing about an american .
she said i shouldn’t .
he had his chance at him and all he did was wound him and kill his friend .
" no , he said .
out past the shade onto the glare of the plain there were three of the big birds squatted obscenely ,
' i touched each of the cartridges in turn , ' simba , simba , faro , nyati , tendalla
the sack cushioned the line and he had found a way of leaning forward against the bow so that he
' i know now .
she smoothed her comfortable lap .
” “i’ve paid every day for the rent of it .
i motioned to kamau to stop and we sat looking at him and he at us .
” “well , ” he says , “like about the wife .
' ' there were more maps in the room than our lord could read on his best day , '
' ' that would just make us both liars .
with two wooden forks at the end to pick them up with .
then he pounced .
in the world .
it ain ' t ready yet , but he drank a little bit , and this morning he put a
maybe land crabs ate gordon .
" it was a hundred and two , " he said .
she pushed me away .
was it a boy or a girl ?
" it ' s all i ' ve got , " retana said .
” “the three told me you win much money .
" " qué va , " the boy said .
fear gone like an operation .
" well , " he said , " it ' s all over .
“i’ve had him for a week .
you never know there , whether there is any truth in the matter , unless you are a bad boy
“my father is a noble lion and always has been respected and everything is true as i said .
' doumi !
“you looked so lovely sleeping .
there were two from each bait he had severed and the two from the bait the fish had taken and
it up-hill going back , certainly there would be that long climb out of the canyon ; we had a
” the door to the kitchen opened and the nigger came in .
, his making-fun-of-me laugh , his bird-shooting laugh that dated from a streak of raging misses one time that had
“bring anything you like .
“i can’t make a bend in the elbow , ” the man said .
john said very quietly .
it was as silly for him to think that he could trail with his father as to think he could
we have to get to that jewellery place .
nor any word more .
he himself would like to be a good catholic , a revolutionary , and have a steady job like this
“mrs .
that ought to bring you closer to her and make you understand her .
and do not forget to tell cipriani i am sending him a cheque for this nonsense .
a natural history of the dead[ _num_ ] it has always seemed to me that the war has been omitted
' ' if it is your order , ' the _gran maestro_ said , ' i can only obey .
why didn ' t she go off with some of her own people ?
" " have you seen the number with the colored plates of the north american fauna ?
” “come on in the office , ” hogan said .
they were strange shoulders , still powerful although very old , and the neck was still strong too and the
see them there so clearly in my mind .
nick was hungry .
it was a very interesting thing to think about and for a while it killed off trout-fishing and interfered with
go on and help , red .
" i know you wouldn ' t mind it , jig .
naturally you make errors .
made one general , unaimed , challenging squirt with it , holding it toward the whole company .
" " leave the kid alone , " solly freedman says .
i was a friend , but i was never really one of them after they had read the citations ,
but i’ve hurt him and i have to kill him .
it was silly to have said it .
the cat , of course , will be all right .
" john asks him .
' ' we knew each other as children , ' the girl said .
he was married five years , had three children , lost most of the fifty thousand dollars his father left
' i saw them , ' he said .
“you run along , helen , ” she said .
“where’s hogan ?
most people are heartless about turtles because a turtle ' s heart will beat for hours after he has been
you know the roman was a hunter .
' i know quite a little about them , burnham .
” nick told him .
did you ever see so much new money ?
worked beautifully and when one station stopped you could go farther west and pick up another .
covered him .
" it ' s cold .
“he’s crazy , too .
' ' do you think your writing is worth doing--as an end in itself ?
she smelt wonderful when she kissed him .
i had never seen her cry before and we had seen many things you could cry about if you were
the tracks swung back into high grass .
i had forgotten all about him .
” “no , sir .
' it ' s impossible not to be competitive .
" " we might as well , " said bill .
" take your goddam hand off my shoulder .
i will !
that pop said was like the northern frontier province of kenya .
” “she dropped down by him and said , ‘pedro , what have they done to thee , pedro ?
it seemed they were discussing money .
“good night , men , ” nick said .
m ' cola had hung the empty water bottle on him , and garrick had loaded him with the cinema
' ' should we tell the pitted man that we are going ?
see the sergeant gets a room , ' he said to the porter .
" it ' s twenty minutes fast .
was the square top of kilimanjaro .
he had to say them and then perhaps he could feel them and then perhaps he could believe them .
he looked at zurito .
” he drew that beer and cut it off and when he saw the money he pushed the beer across
can kill and come out of it , doing something you are ignorant about and so not scared , no
' but you won ' t tease me , will you ?
i walked over holding the early morning cup of hot tea and milk in my hand waiting for it to
you said it and you love me .
they put whiskey in the beer .
could only see well in flashes .
' you already made the notation on the check .
' droopy was running and i re-loaded and ran off after him .
' ' i heard you , sir , ' jackson said .
you know it ' s just what we did each day and how alaska looked to an englishman from africa
why am i strange in bed ?
“forget the whole thing .
down here everybody aims to mind their own business .
' _m ' uzuri , memsahib_ , ' and m ' cola and the porters all saying ' _m '
" " no , just go to the fight with me .
for a man to take it at thirty-four as a guide-book to what life holds is about as safe as
the wagon and the mules were covered with dust .
the second one was all right .
the bull , toro !
we went on slowly .
or should i come up to your room ?
i do not remember going to bed , nor if we went to bed .
in the first forty days a boy had been with him .
in the dark in the storm they just missed it ; raining the way it was they couldn ' t
we’d better get going .
there was dew on the oilcloth cover , the engine , and the seats were wet with dew .
, m ' cola saw it again too through the rising mist of the savage ' s unbelief in what
he was fascinated by its techniques and conventions , the skill and courage required by the toreros , and the
i ' ve had scouts out here on both the hills but they ' ve seen nothing .
he and kibo moved back , the wind on his neck now , and they backtracked out of the forest
" he ' s got this jewish superiority so strong that he thinks the only emotion he ' ll get
the doctor wiped his gun carefully with a rag .
hands , at his hands that had , with his willingness to oblige and his lack of respect for federal
' and the _cavaliere ufficiale_ who manages this place ?
he had no nose then and his face was to be rebuilt .
” it was cold and i tied my other shoe and was finished dressing .
“he puts lemon juice on his hands , ” the man said .
been a bad show there just now .
they had minds , yes .
there was no sense boring this boy , who , for all his combat infantryman badge , his purple heart
he came back and reported there were no tracks leading down the valley below us and to the westward ,
" good-by , mr .
he came up for air just under the projecting edge of the dock and climbed up the ladder .
“come on , wemedge , ” the ghee said .
the liquor had run all over everything .
they were not the big grasshoppers with yellow and black or red and black wings whirring out from their black
" " and if the tessera is false ?
build like yours but you have an absolutely heaven-given ability to not have to go to the bathroom .
these men might just as well be fighting and get killed too .
we tried the key and it did not work .
” macomber’s wife had not looked at him nor he at her and he had sat by her in the
how far to water ?
" we uncorked the other bottle .
jake doesn ' t care .
” “no , ” said the thin one .
that’s one more thing you can watch .
land .
they are probably the most beautiful of all the beautiful things she has with the longest honest lashes i have
” the nigger was talking with his mouth almost against a sack .
i don ' t believe you made many wrong decisions .
" nick told him .
he knows we’ll be happier if we don’t get too good a look at these skins , ” another pic
it’s better to be catholique if you’re catholique .
m ' cola ' s water bottle made a noise against the cartridges in his pocket and i stopped and
" " he didn ' t beat you .
to support his children and their mothers and he would have to do some decent writing to make that money
" he claims she turns men into swine .
farm , and as the volkswagen crossed the notch of the cross roads and came toward us on the good
them shadows .
that was the other year before the turkey .
“you been here long ?
' i was sure you hit him .
” “no sir , ” said george .
" i ' m all right .
he heard the hyena make a noise just outside the range of the fire .
” mr .
he locked the suitcase and we went up to the smoker .
” “be yourself , ” walcott says .
we could see the car outside , through the window .
when i found he was on board i decided i’d have to do away with him but then when everything
that way it won’t show .
“i don’t want to see you , ” zurito said .
she is a beautiful , hard piece of work .
trail ; pointing with a grass stem at the spots to save talking , until it ran out again and
i asked if you had been in love--with a girl .
i could not see anything but the men crouching over by the wheels and opposite us freight cars and i
he said he wanted to get it absolutely right before he showed it .
they had a travelling-bag with them .
he did not like to look at the fish anymore since he had been mutilated .
” “it was an error , sergeant , ” the little prisoner said .
” “i want you here , ” he said , “and i will pay you .
he said something in chink and the others started going into the water off the stern .
“sure you don’t want me to help you ?
turn , and then curved delicately into those smooth , ivory-like points .
i was feeling fairly depressed .
" " we ' ll come before we go .
aren ' t they lovely ?
superintendent of schools .
she had not understood that she was to stay behind .
it would have been the hell of a mess .
“well , we haven’t , ” nick told her .
i don’t want to talk a lot of crap but i think i’m going to get killed tomorrow .
the austrians , i mean .
" " sommelier !
macomber laughed , a very natural hearty laugh .
“they’re too rocky .
and came home that night around the mountain with the moonlight on the fields of narcissi that grew on the
who gives a damn about the war anyway ?
horns , it was a cow from the dark chestnut colour .
the olive groves of the jarama , in the heat in the smashed houses of quijorna , and in the
" that ' s all right , " manuel said .
“he was the easiest man to do business with i ever met .
” “i wasn’t thinking .
i heard the gun going and , bop , bop , bop , there were bottles smashing all along the
to the new works , she said .
fairly good publisher .
but the bird was almost out of sight now and nothing showed on the surface of the water but some
” “it isn’t that .
” “extremadura , ” he said proudly .
" " no .
they shelled it badly before the big fifteenth of june offensive in ' eighteen .
" i ' ll see you at the café , " brett said .
" " where is she now ?
trolling and an old man in a felt hat and a windbreaker held the tiller and steered the boat close
it is very cuban .
“oh , my christ , ” she said .
' ' my good or my bad ?
” “hey , al , bright boy says he wouldn’t say what he thinks it’s all about .
shot ?
done everything in my power to prevent you from being certified as one .
you make them and the good ones are killed , and above they are always bucking for something so hard
, with seats on the roofs , that went back and forth to the suburbs with , at certain hours
also i ' ll tell them it is a portrait of my daughter .
“that’s a whalebone handle , ” the negro smiled .
not just to let my life pass .
' now we throw away the book and chase for keeps .
curtain banal story so he ate an orange , slowly spitting out the seeds .
the académie americaine , she said .
“i’d be out of business .
” “do you like the escabeche ?
“so long as it’s over that’s all that matters , ” bill said .
' hunt now , ' i told m ' cola .
is a good for the buzzing in the head .
or you must be governed .
dick boulton turned to nick’s father .
we got some good tank shots there .
where we could look down and see the plain , the heavy forest below the wall , and the long
” “were you really that conceited ?
i went over to where we had the four bicycles behind the trees and the copains were standing there like
the bull was slower now , manuel felt .
she might as well sleep , he thought .
' ' i like to feel the buttons .
in the night i hear fontan come to get some more wine , and i tell him , fontan ,
” i’d ask him .
" two hundred pesetas .
them kept after him , first one talking and then the other , and the fat wop always butting in
in the doorway stood the maid .
' ' awful , ' i said .
it won’t taste strong mixed with the water but you have to believe it is .
, and finally the crowd were actively against him , and he was utterly contemptuous and indifferent .
keep out of sight .
he had to leave it ; knowing there was no other thing to do .
once he knows everything .
" is that you , monsieur barnes ?
now you go away without any wine .
” “it is a very rare thing , ” the manager said .
do me the courtesy to answer .
“i told him everything exactly as you said and he said to tell you , truly , that he doesn’t
his instincts and his knowledge worked automatically , and his brain worked slowly and in words .
and who can ' t win with fifteen to one ?
" " what did you do with your shoes ?
“but this is awfully good .
” “sure , ” said jack .
i sat out in front of the café and then went for a walk in the town .
” the old marlin headed out to the nor’west like all the big ones go , and brother , did
” “but you don’t have to have anything to do with it .
“all those first confident stories were lost .
" " couldn ' t you fix it up some way ?
around under the grandstand to the infirmary .
yellow stuff , i thought to myself .
' ' so we made the mucking break-through , ' the colonel said , and now his head was turned
look at them there on that hillside .
the line went out and out and out but it was slowing now and he was making the fish earn
" montoya was very pleased .
” into a skillet he was laying slices of ham .
' _bathi_ yourself , ' said pop .
he hit a tire on the car because i saw dust blowing in a spurt on the street as the
did you see it , doc ?
we were dancing to the accordion and some one was playing the banjo .
the horse , lifted and gored , crashed over with the bull driving into him , the picador gave a
the line showed like a phosphorescent streak in the water straight out from his shoulders .
we must let him stiffen up .
the innkeeper .
well , he could always shoot better than i could and he deserves it .
” “touch me carefully , ” he said , eating .
his nose was swollen and there were edges of loose skin where blisters had been .
to their source and fishing them down stream .
lift the bottle .
peduzzi talked rapidly with much winking and knowingness .
he knew things and they couldn’t touch him .
a wife wasn’t what he needed .
” “we’ll have one together .
" but no matter .
you go with him , bright boy .
“i’m sorry you got so mixed up about him .
then i heard him ask the doctor if he might use his telephone and he shut the door .
it tastes like medicine .
now about this .
" he ' s a pretty smooth boy , " hogan said .
" fontan had come in .
knowing it was all a bloody balls--if he can ' t stop crying , break his nose to give him
the things she said to all the people .
you have the pails ?
” “at the drugstore , ” the cashier said .
” “cleans out your liver , ” said wilson .
arcade at the big square .
” “they’re looking for us .
“no , you wouldn’t have .
nick stopped on the bridge .
” “fifty grand is a lot of money , ” i said .
' what makes the stink ?
chapter vi in the bar , sitting at the first table as he came in , there was a post-war
” chapter xi the crowd shouted all the time and threw pieces of bread down into the ring , then
" " i know , " said johnson .
' ' good , my colonel .
“i’ll bet it did , ” he said .
alone with the pain in the night in the fifth week of not sleeping i thought suddenly how a bull
we went into the room full of people and braddocks and the men at his table stood up .
' ' it is always disheartening as hell .
wheels of an old ford .
“i don’t want to take a cure at all .
_ _num_ st soldier_--you better try it .
that fail have such a bad press and the winners always lie so .
why don ' t you just talk ?
on the white below george dipped and rose and dipped out of sight .
“but why should he necessarily lose it ?
" " i can give you a double room for seven dollars .
then i saw a splash like a depth bomb and the sword and eye and open lower jaw and huge
after that , when the second ripping crash had smashed his hind quarters and he had come crawling on toward
" " what is an hour ?
they struck down toward the orchard .
' ' we have very primitive emotions , ' he said .
” “you have no business to charge for that .
” “only if they fall on you , ” wilson told her .
“i told you as soon as it gets dark .
' ' i ' m here , ' said p .
" " harris ?
he was seventeen .
i wonder what this night will bring .
he still hung to the fish with his jaws hooked and the old man stabbed him in his left eye
but there was no hatchet and then there was no knife .
brought him up the trail in the gap there from the flat .
” “what’s the matter with her ?
" take me away from here , " she said , " you bankrupts .
' those are the ones you get involved with when you ' re drunk .
' ' absolutely , ' pop said .
" watch him , " retana ' s man said .
wrote you a post-card .
we stopped opposite two restaurant signs .
" " i ' ll festa them , " bill said .
jerking them out and eating them with relish .
" i drink a little now once in a while , just to drive the wolf out of the room
people who are out to have a good time ?
floating i saw only the sky , and felt the drop and lift of the swells .
the tide was about half-way out .
” “don’t you worry .
t feel so badly .
” “they’re all at chapel , ” she said .
got to take a lot of things in this world , joe .
” the man said .
johnson’s table .
' said the old man .
the picadors galloped jerkily around the ring , and two rode out the gate they had come in by .
gate into the ring , and as the bulls passed , galloping together , heavy , muddy-sided , horns swinging
“it isn’t fun any more .
" " in this so dear spezia ?
“and why shouldn’t you be ?
” “yes , bratchen .
i ' m so sick of him !
” “yes , sir , ” blindy said .
" is that where she is ?
looked as though you could walk across on their backs they were all so bunched and going so smooth .
but then strange dreams about places mostly .
" " mais vous êtes encore jeune , " said the porter .
" cohn started to consider .
but i don ' t know anything about football .
” and , after all , maybe she would have thought i was a tout instead of really trying to
“that chap your brother ?
” “didn’t i !
" " another , " said the old man .
i don ' t think they ' ll be back to-night .
m ' cola and i went on trailing very slowly and laboriously across the long stony slope and back and
feel it .
" i got a good girl .
all of him , pain , sickness , hatred and all of his remaining strength , was tightening into an
chewing the bones carefully and eating all of it down to the tail .
” the girl asked .
' maybe i ' m not .
of fat and muscle on his thin-haired , grey , scaly-hided neck , the heavy power and the rage in
' ' beer ' s a food , ' pop said .
it would have been all right with mrs .
if you prayed for all of them , saying a hail mary and an our father for each one ,
' he ' ll get one where we ' re going , ' pop said .
maybe this time i can get him over .
" look what he ' s done for marcial lalanda .
fuzzy blur of stars that the romanticists of astronomers called the southern cross .
” “we’ll see .
they picked up the tracks after losing them , stooping to pluck a grass blade or a leaf that had
it was a good morning , there were high white clouds above the mountains .
' what do you want , daughter ?
we tried the new wine .
while i had him on , several trout had jumped at the falls .
" you are a rotten dancer , jake .
groups of three and four people standing in front of the shops stared at the three .
” “awfully strong and funny and a little sick-making .
" " they oughtn ' t to have any right .
” “frances wilson .
two apiece if you fight .
eyes used to vast distances and that sort of thing .
“will you bring me the bread , mister adams ?
my trade is killing armed men .
they ' d have both gone well over two hundred and fifty pounds .
sell them in bayonne ?
somebody in the crowd shouted a warning .
“i have denounced him .
over and be absolutely unable to get past that .
” the tall one said , “yes .
” the man did not answer .
it’s better to hold a place and i’ll join you .
awfully swell .
the old man went out the door and the boy came after him .
he was thinking , what in hell makes him say marsala ?
ambition was another , an opium of the people , along with a belief in any new form of government
he just sits there on the bed .
he was twenty-five years old and had never gone to bed with a woman until he married mrs .
that was what the civil war was about .
quites , " _el heraldo ' s_ critic wrote .
the wife stayed behind , following rather sullenly .
the american lady pulled the window-blind down and there was no more sea , even occasionally .
then he jumped again and again and the boat was going fast although line was still racing out and the
his wife looked at him now .
" he says he never saw the fellow at all , " the interpreter said .
they were a tall , good-looking man with features like the roman ' s , but slightly less noble ,
were you in the war , pop ?
“thanks for coming around .
he’s a marvellous lion .
several times during the bull-fight i looked up at mike and brett and cohn , with the glasses .
the washroom smelt like brass spittoons in the early morning .
“i’m glad .
at her eyes and at the way her hair grew on her forehead and at the edge of her ear
i heard brett and robert cohn come up the stairs .
“he wouldn’t get them in dishwater for anything .
a large , grey animal , white stripes showing on his flanks and huge horns curling back from his head
” “how strange !
” which was true .
the stream was clear and shallow but it did not look trouty .
" i finished shaving and put my face down into the bowl and washed it with cold water .
three hundred francs to do that .
he looked at the sun carefully .
“please , nick , please .
he wore his old army clothes .
“bring me some , ” said mr .
the old man lowered the cow sable head .
the men from the town who had been drafted had all been welcomed elaborately on their return .
" " you ' ll be all right .
would not be able to get them out of the trucks .
the colonel wished that the door would open more rapidly .
they were just finishing winding his sash .
' ' there isn ' t any other woman , ' the colonel told her , and his eyes were
autumn quiet and wet from the fall rains .
ketchup on the daily food .
" you know , " he said , " i like liquor pretty well .
” then later she said , “roger .
" " i believe it is .
“he hasn’t got anything more .
i never saw the calf .
i say that too much .
” somebody asked .
i looked back as we came out and there was only the sea , and below in the bay ,
on the telephone .
see you tomorrow night .
the green plain stretched off .
it was his first meeting with the famous white hunter phillip percival , whom he admired at once for his
" when do you go ?
clusters of canvas rope-soled shoes and hams and slabs of bacon and white garlics and long sausages hanging from the
" " mais j ' ai rudement bien mangé .
we went on out across the street .
" " i thought you weren ' t going to ever talk about it .
that was the thing about french girls and german girls .
was a service in the chapel of san fermin , and the coffin was carried to the railway-station by members
” “you give a damn about so many things that i don’t .
" it was noon when i hooked him , " he said .
" why don ' t you put me on next week ?
t have much sense , but they were big , nearly as big as the biggest one .
for a long time after that everyone had called him the champion and there had been a return match in
the red shafts of the banderillos twitching with his walk .
“if you work all day in a book-factory you get hungry .
the others were trailing up into the timber .
from there the road dropped steeply along the face of the wall , down into the forest , on to
but who do you suppose that character is ?
” “what’s to prevent him going down by east jordan and grand traverse ?
“captain doctor , ” one of them said .
number of shootings in the old days around valencia under the monarchy , and that for hundreds of years before
" another brandy , " he said , pointing to his glass .
” “you can’t insult me , ” said peroxide .
” “nothing , suzy .
and found a shotgun of mine and demanded to know if i had a permis de chasse i think there
” “fear , ” said enrique .
we walked back through the smoker to our seats in the other car .
makes writers such attractive friends .
the bar is very costly .
' chapter xliii at the landing , before the long low stone house by the side of the canal ,
” “that’s an attack , ” i said .
i’ll tell you about him .
the old man looked carefully in the glimpse of vision that he had .
by where we lived there was a big brewery right near us .
i worry about the kids .
oh christ , he said , i wonder what she looks like now sleeping .
too many times .
perhaps i can give you a winner at enghien today ?
” “all i say is you never had a mother , ” i said to him .
damned silly idea .
and i can remember just how he felt , lifting him , and how he had been flattened and the
win , lose , or draw .
" he took about forty pounds , " the old man said aloud .
you could have landed and taken off from there quite easily .
nick finally opened it .
“now you can take a sleep , ” i said to eddy .
" now that i have him coming so beautifully , god help me endure .
" so i gave him two copper coins .
” i watched her eyes run over al .
" " letter to-day .
it was like certain dinners i remember from the war .
there is a fourth and fifth dimension that can be gotten .
“lost money .
why doesn’t the comrade eat with his unit ?
i met him walking with three friends in the evening on the way to the callao cinema in the gran
' he walked slowly back to where the car was parked .
then we ' ll drive back in the night .
i have never said anything of a dead that i would not say to his face , ' and he
the brown skin came taut over her cheekbones when she smiled and the undercolor showed .
behind the wooden counter is a hebrew wineseller .
please , wemedge .
" you ought to have seen me , manos , " manuel said , reproachfully .
“he just went crazy .
“here they are , ” he said .
” “no , please don’t read , ” he said .
take the easiest shot there is .
the praying had not been much of a success .
now i would go somewhere else .
through the deepening water , nick waded over to the hollow log .
" i don ' t know .
he had two older sisters who were chambermaids at the luarca , who had gotten their place through coming from
' i did not mean to be brusque .
“it’s in the cash box now and you can pay me .
around us , her eyes down , and went on along the trail that we had come , alone ,
” “you might think about some one else .
“this is on the house .
“have a drink on the house , ” he said .
the horns were curling out the back of the car , tied on to the loads .
and as soon as i lost that ability i would stop .
the same as ever and at noon they took only the usual five-minute rest and he had seen that juma
" put the beer on the table , " madame fontan said .
first to keep from spilling , then meditatively , sucking the apricots down .
nothing was ever stolen in the hotel montana .
each day i hoped he would get one and that the atmosphere would clear but each day his feelings about
wilson looked at her with his flat blue eyes .
i will not let him suffer .
an airplane passed over head on its course to miami and he watched its shadow scaring up the schools of
” “if it’s necessary .
i made a rule not to .
" he has no friends .
“such people have their wounds dressed and are returned at once to the line , ” the extremaduran went on
' ' but that was terrible .
she was afraid of the speed in the night .
“i don’t want any more of that , ” said sam , the cook .
just then it started .
but don ' t be superior and be careful some one else doesn ' t come along and take you
i love you to be in your trade and i love you .
you never know in this town .
' ' i do too , ' the colonel said .
“two years ago this fall .
” “nous avons pêché sérieusement .
" " poor devil !
he was not afraid of the black spots .
if you’ll go upstairs with me i’ll give you a hundred francs .
“ahead and to the right .
opinion , but i knew , coldly , and outside myself , that i could shoot a rifle on game
” “well , let’s catch one , ” he said .
' ' you ' re sure the lorry can stand it ?
he had been contemptuous of those who wrecked .
then , too , he was sentimental , and , like most sentimental people , he was both cruel and
" he sat down and looked at her across the table .
there aren ' t any really good painters now .
i couldn ' t find ' shut up ' so i put the back of my hand against his mouth
little while he was asleep .
tell him that , " he said to the interpreter .
” “do you want me to pray for you ?
on the other hand , you have a map covered with plastic material , and on this you have three
" we were all laughing .
he was conscious he must do all this , but his only thought was in words : " corto y
' ' i ' ve got enough .
so now let us take it .
' so do i , ' the girl said .
he had thought so often looking back on things .
after all a vacation is a vacation and this had been a fine one , maybe one of the very
' ' what happens to people that love each other ?
strike a canvas-covered decoy , rising , his wings beating , the talons caught in the canvas .
he was wearing an old blue jersey and pants and had on boxing shoes .
“i’m offering to put you on tomorrow night , ” retana said .
i began to think about what would happen if a rhino came barging along this tunnel and who would do
the same time for the fish might have swum up or down .
" it doesn ' t make any difference to me .
so naturally i had no medals , and i stopped at my tailor ' s and he was impressed by
“and unarmed too , ” said the doctor .
the wind getting under the edge of the blanket ; wildly .
" say something ironical .
better head than this one carried .
we waved .
luz sat on the bed .
i just slept and slept .
the next day was very bad because long before noon he knew that it was not just the need for
” “well , i got twenty-four berths to make up .
he always was .
length of the pic rising in a sharp angle under his armpit , holding the pic almost by the point
all the places for the first four services were reserved at the office of the company .
” “i’ll call up about it , ” i said .
shouldered through the grass and i went ahead fast without trailing by the blood , to m ' cola '
and moved high in the sky as the breeze freshened and the shadows of the clouds moved over the swamp
” “i couldn’t help it , ” nick said .
then the sun was brighter and the glare came on the water and then , as it rose clear ,
she had not moved since she heard the burst of firing .
" " we ' ll take a long walk before you turn in and get you good and tired .
” steinfelt said to change the subject .
was no place to sit down .
” “what about the money ?
the rain dripped from the palm trees .
peduzzi passed it back .
' we ' re none of us ever drunk .
‘i though you knew what you were doing and i had no call to interfere .
' ' but how did you ever marry one ?
' m ' uzuri !
i’ve got some chocolate if you’d like some .
' ' of course not .
only he did not know enough things .
" " why doesn ' t he get a divorce ?
there was a herd of kongoni scattered between us and the eland and with the kongoni a single bull oryx
” he did .
“an accident that he fired eight shots at you and hit you twice , there ?
talking ?
that ' s what they call the static element in painting .
it had been a dependence of the grand hotel--but now it was its own hotel and a very good one
” “that’s the same way you said ‘casa del campo .
' let ' s roll .
” “can i make you a drink ?
looked like that early in the morning .
so they said to circulate around anyway .
women and kids were in the carts crouched with mattresses , mirrors , sewing machines , bundles .
pesos with him all the time , and he said he would look after it .
" " doesn ' t make any difference .
two assault guards with rifles sat on chairs outside the embassy gate and the meat was waiting at the porter’s
” “faut les connaître , ” said johnson .
birthmarked-faced auctioneer of watches at the fairs and festivals of spain , who also drank too much , and two
through wide nostrils as he charged , glad to be free after the dark pen .
his sister was tanned brown and she had dark brown eyes and dark brown hair with yellow streaks in it
“haven’t they got anything to drink in that farmhouse ?
it does seem like he didn ' t have to have got it .
" go up to the café and see brett and mike ?
' all cows , ' he said .
as soon as we started out on the road outside of town it was cool .
_ _num_ d soldier_--why didn ' t he come down off the cross ?
he shut the door and then opened it .
' ' but you stayed .
” “anyway i should say he was eighty .
floor .
' kandisky said , and he spoke on to her .
nothing .
and michael .
' i ' m dopey with sleep , ' i told pop .
" " i ' m sure he would have liked to meet you but he died last year .
it has its perils and its merits .
and i kept looking at those paintings until madonnas started to run out of my ears .
he would not let me seat him in the far corner .
he knows everything about working in close too and he’s getting away with a lot of stuff .
i sure as hell was , he thought .
cedar waxwings make me so proud and happy that i cry .
they were not big .
” said eddy .
elliot tried very hard to have a baby .
" " i don ' t like it , " said the cook .
the nigger lay on the floor of the cockpit and there were sacks of liquor , shaped like hams ,
of the man who sat beside him .
they spread the blankets , kate smoothing them flat .
there was a cold mist in the hollow where the road crossed the creek .
, but he speaks to me now when i meet him as though we were friends .
the old man knew it too .
“you got a lot of luck .
don ' t we pay for all the things we do , though ?
they talked at night or when they were storm-bound by bad weather .
he told me to tell you he thinks the position will fall of its own weight .
” “on what terms ?
, and finally a volley of cushions and pieces of bread and vegetables , thrown down at him in the
none of us had ever seen a wart-hog that would not bolt off , fast-trotting , tail in air .
the major sat at a table against the wall .
i stood there by the door .
” “a fall off a horse .
or you give them to people to keep and the people go away ; or they are lost with your
now when i killed , it was a joke , as when we shot a hyena ; the funniest joke
" " pretty nice stuffed dogs , " bill said .
it was a pretty day all right .
“you’ll be drunk , ” the waiter said .
he looked at the sky and saw the white cumulus built like friendly piles of ice cream and high above
" " what does he do ?
" " frances .
we were a long way from camp , at least four hours as we had come , and much of
” “why don’t you take them down to the hotel and try to sell them to the resorters ?
” “that’s it , ” said wilson .
he watched , again , the strange play of the light on the ceiling .
" hot and with plenty of milk and sugar in it .
' ' and if a writer can get this ?
" i say , bill is an ass .
” george was not listening .
finally the old man woke .
' ' let ' s walk so we make even the backs of our legs look dangerous .
plane or for what .
stood and talked before they went in .
roger walked back to the tourist camp , buying a later edition of the miami herald at the drugstore .
" sit down , " said harvey , " i ' ve been looking for you .
" what does she say ?
" " you ' re drunk , " mr .
kongoni , the old gun-bearer , in the lead watching the blood spoor , wilson watching the grass for any
" so we took up the use of grammar , and soon italian was such a difficult language that i
' it ' s been a bitter day , my colonel .
nick was on the back seat with the two garner boys .
” “i will be , ” roger said .
you could hear it since noon .
if the boy was here he would wet the coils of line , he thought .
" anyone can be a fisherman in may .
so we started for camp , me with the tripe bag on the end of a stick over my shoulder
” “i just asked you , ” said hogan .
a jock loses about a kilo every time he rides , but my old man was sort of dried out
but he did not remember him .
he was the one the marqués of villamayor had to get rid of because he was faithful , ” the
ax .
” johnson asked me .
to observe the dead of mules .
“you said if we made this trip that there would be none of that .
and being away from home so much .
and they could bring up infantry when it was right to or cover their advance when that was best .
he did not understand english but he had sweat all the time the row was going on .
' buffalo .
close to the western summit there is the dried and frozen carcass of a leopard .
“please don’t cry , my blessed , ” he said .
“when ?
he saw kate coming through the trees in the dark but did not move .
" she kissed me coolly on the forehead .
he fought on the stony , high ground .
waiting for dinner .
the people of the hotel had put the luggage and the picture in the boat and seen that jackson was
the hills made shadows on the water , which was flat calm and rather stagnant looking .
the tall waiter represented to him revolution and revolution also was romantic .
" " want to call it off ?
he had seen the world change ; not just the events ; although he had seen many of them and
we walked the short way through the communist quarter because we were four together .
” ‘i don’t know , ” he said .
” “what do you do for amusement ?
" eighty-five is a lucky number , " the old man said .
walked to the bar .
the house was disappearing in the sudden fountainings of dust clouds from the shells that were registering on it .
we’ve been on the rocks .
' we are in our home and i love you .
" " shut up , frances , for god ' s sake .
the one thing about absinthe is that you have to drink it awfully slowly .
“and then get some sandwiches .
“can we see the lake , too ?
flocks and the geese all went toward the open water .
he took out a heavy pigskin cigar-case and offered it to me .
finally it led down from a rocky hillside with the last of the sun on it , down into the
” “i’m getting scared , ” roger said .
but once they are in the bottle they stay there .
" you ' ll be stale .
' ' agreed .
there on the hillside , head-on , wide , black , looking straight towards us , ears twitching and head
' ' yes , ' the girl said .
turner , ” campbell said .
rested against the wood .
they had the whole thing worked out and canalized so however you out-thought them you ran right into it .
but he did not remember .
_num_ d soldier—she used to have a lot of stuff .
of glade beyond a small village where there was a mission station at the foot of a mountain .
' ' i said it .
” he had been a very great fencer , and before the war the greatest fencer in italy .
" you want another copita ?
the café was like a battleship stripped for action .
" oui .
“well , ” he said .
are you sleepy , jim ?
flying fish .
i am a cheap card player , only that .
” “for what ?
his name is crut-face evans .
he felt very tired .
no help was needed , his old felt hat held out as he bowed after the unneeded act .
thought .
i saw flickers flying in the edge of the woods and i figured they were going south .
“no more tonight .
“that’s three i owe you .
" " mais nous avons tout bu , " fontan said .
" " get him out of here , " doctor wilcox said .
an excellent politician .
where are we ?
" after the coffee and a fine we got the bill , chalked up the same as ever on a
) so i told m ' cola to open another bottle and we were through the plain and climbing the
my father laughed .
” said baldy .
' no water , ' the boatman said .
deadly weight on my head and i was very thirsty .
" " oh , yes , " said brett .
" " good-night , mrs .
' ' he asked me who you were .
but there is no word for what you are .
“you pay me what you owe me or i will take it out of the cash box .
" can you still see genoa ?
” in the dark he went into the strange country and it was very strange indeed , hard to enter
just then another drunk started out from the fence with a blouse in his hands .
i like him as well as any man i ' ve ever known , but i ' m damned if
got in close he’s socked so hard he’s got two big red patches on both sides just below jack’s ribs
i looked down the aisle at my father .
” “i can’t understand it , anyway , ” john said .
" finished , " he said , speaking with that omission of syntax stupid people employ when talking to drunken
any place .
they were brought by a sleek-headed boy who believed in nothing ; but was trying hard to be a good
you have just put that call through to .
he was right .
tomorrow they won ' t have anything to drink , and then they ' ll be sorry .
" please give them the bottle , " frazer said .
the edge of the grass , he made a coughing grunt and charged .
" " thanks .
his rod lying out on the logs , nick tied a new hook on the leader , pulling the gut
he had lit like a cat but without a cat’s resiliency .
” “see you then .
we done right not to wait .
he lived along that coast now every night and in his dreams he heard the surf roar and saw the
” “a girl about eleven or twelve .
“where is the policeman ?
everything was soaked in it .
horse came down , quivering , the bull ' s tail brushing his chest as he charged the cape hernandez
war , the colonel thought , and gabriele d ' annunzio (i always wondered what his real name was ,
they probably didn ' t know where they were when they ran with that blow but they come close to
the thing is , pop , we ' ve never seen them on the salt in the evening and we
” “he says it’s at least a half hour more .
the other was almost as tall but wider in spread and heavier in beam .
after his own image ?
' ' i liked charlie curtis ' s .
they are not sacred , nor relics .
it had filled up , and as the time for the bull-fight came it got fuller , and the tables
in arusha .
name was tristan tzara , who always wore a monocle and had a headache , and , back at the
he lifted it as lightly as he could because his hands rebelled at the pain .
[_he looks a little worried .
don ' t get sore at this stage of the trip .
' he said : ' what medals , sir ?
' boys who were sensitive and cracked and kept all their valid first impressions of their day of battle ,
toward the right , climbing steeply , and at the head of the valley in some large rocks jumped a
he could hear marjorie rowing on the water .
there were mass prayer books , group postcards showing the machine-gun unit standing in ranked and ruddy cheerfulness as in
do you mind if i speak italian ?
" come on over to the café , " bill said .
" i was lying with my face away from her .
the west just in case one string did come in .
well , i said , after all he’s just an ignorant mexican savage .
figure it as well as you can and then really do what you have to do .
” “not just filling the wood box and hauling water ?
” as we headed her out , the moon started to come up and you could see the chinks with
and it was snow they tramped along in until they died that winter .
" i ' ve told you , boy .
i was thinking how real that russia of the time of our civil war was , as real as any
" i went over to the cupboard and brought the rum bottle and poured a half-tumblerful into the pitcher .
' to-morrow , elephants , ' i said , teasing m ' cola .
take some of your belly off , governor .
” “it was bad .
and steaming in the room .
" there isn ' t any idea .
but you can bear anything , he thought .
face cracked at the eyes and mouth into a smile as he took the flask out of his pocket .
the approaching overloaded vehicle was of the type where the driver looks out through slits and its heavy machine guns
who wants true combat ?
from their roots .
he had been in many towns , walked much , and seen many pictures .
i read the turgenieff .
" " i want him to stay there .
ashley , chap she got the title from , was a sailor , you know .
is it very bad ?
” “i don’t worry , ” he said , “but i can’t keep from thinking .
it was the best bar in spain , certainly , and i think one of the best bars in the
” “eat an apple , ” he said .
” “i wish we could put knockout drops in it .
the whole thing and in eleven minutes i will wake the live girl up and we will go out on
" yes , with water .
there wasn’t a customhouse officer in the world could smell chink in her now .
” “we oughtn’t to talk out loud , ” i said .
with her looked as though he ought to be wearing an old school tie .
that ' s where you make your big mistake .
you shouldn ' t be that tired after a windless night .
i’ve tried so very hard , but she doesn’t seem to take an interest in anything .
also complicated by various other influences .
odgar thought just love would do it .
' ' go ahead , ' karl said .
these are ruffled grouse .
” they were a whitish patch on the gray-green of the hill .
“but i’m too morbid for it already .
eyes !
droopy was on the other side of the hilltop , squatted on his heels , looking , and m '
” he took out a receipt book , made in duplicate , and perforated , so one side could be
corto y derecho he launched himself on the bull .
" " you aren ' t going to die .
" the bird looked at him when he spoke .
“i’m going to take the boat , ” marjorie called to him .
get it , nor even see one .
we all got in the car and it started up the white dusty road into spain .
he was being polite .
“what the hell’s that to me ?
just then he heard the two young men behind him saying the things about him .
“something might happen .
they used to go in with schooners and load guavas from the river and there used to be a town
” “i can fly anything , ” said the woolly jacket man .
will throw it away .
' but i have to give them back you know .
can ' t you give a chap an ash-tray ?
nor in the fields .
she lay in the lower bunk , very big under a quilt .
i put it under her door .
oh , i ' ve just thought of something .
” “we can make love after it is well .
he flew up for a moment and kissed his father on both cheeks and saw the horses still had their
" " from me , " said the thin one , " he won two hundred and eleven dollars .
they sat down on the bed .
we passed the church and the school-yard , and the bus stopped .
” that afternoon they had been playing about five minutes when a probationer came into the room and said ,
hard-braided brown lines , the gaff and the harpoon with its shaft .
' you want a good one .
, but cars had obviously gone through , so , believing it was some repair which had been completed ,
there were three boys who came each day who were about the same age i was .
“i hadn’t thought of that .
domenico , ' and left the gritti .
he was all right until then .
” he asked .
' ' not a damned thing , really .
if i were him i would put in everything now and go until something broke .
maybe it wasn ' t quatre bras .
“he’s gotten into a bad place though .
he poured the beer into one of the glasses , holding the glass close to the bottle .
bill handed him one of our bottles .
” “well , we better wait to cook until night .
nick thought , i wish i could put all of myself in there .
coat with shells in the pocket above my head and finally trying to work toward where p .
tafalla .
“will you ever go skiing together in the states ?
there were trees along the stream and a mill with a water wheel .
' ettore , ' he said .
" so there you were .
" when he sailed into the little harbour the lights of the terrace were out and he knew everyone was
didn’t you ever ?
almost any liar writes more convincingly than a man who was there .
he was standing up .
i heard the rocket and i knew i could not get into the ring in time to see the bulls
' i asked pop .
that story .
the track over those rocks was spain and i had followed this same route forged on ahead and following close
the masai repeated it to pop .
now , daughter , we parted from the column of the general leclerc at clamart .
" one catholique is like another .
then shift the bull ' s charge to the flannel and finish out the pass in the classic manner .
i heard what the gentleman said .
nick ate a big flapjack and a smaller one , covered with apple butter .
now there is no longer one hundred and eighty dollars in the world .
for nothing , for no reason , when you need it most you have this girl , freely and of
for it ?
“you have it your own way .
would come out .
' now captains , ' the general said , ' they know the exact truth and they can mostly tell
' ' i took a chance .
john , came out in a car from town .
it was quite true .
“i said anything that can talk .
" " what ' s the idea ?
sort of looking kid .
the driver was asleep .
the one i lost on i hit twice but it fell dead outside .
” “i’d like to save the world .
why can ' t he marry ?
and hard on the course .
" aren ' t you going to let us in ?
then there was the short-barrelled explosion of the mannlicher and the lion was going to the left on a run
all the insides clean and compact , coming out all together .
men and women would crowd together on the sidewalk so that we would have had to jostle them to get
" and there ' s not a damn thing we could do , " i said .
piece of bread , and then littless drank the weak tea with the condensed milk in it and nick tapped
the second waiter returned it .
the priests left immediately after the picador , hurriedly conscious of being the last people in the dining room ,
" i hardly think so .
the fires of the camp showing ahead .
some geese .
you don ' t have to worry about that .
" " you watch .
asked the boatman , ' where is the shooting barrel ?
damn , i wish i might walk around this town all my life .
he tipped the cognac out of his saucer into his glass .
“why do you hate the north americans ?
” “will you go back to the states ?
" you ' ll be all right in a couple of days .
' yes , ' the girl said .
” “no coffee .
they preferred belmonte ' s imitation of himself or marcial ' s imitation of belmonte .
” “well , ” i said , “they’re always wrong , ain’t they ?
into a general store by mistake .
" cut him down to size for me .
' ' me president ?
isn ' t that the headquarters of the society ?
' ' it is charming , ' the girl said .
old man was raising the strain to breaking point and raising it to breaking point again and again .
" you can ' t fire me because i ' ve got down off my bicycle .
after ascertaining their customary daily wage , pop told them if either of us killed a kudu the guide would
" don ' t worry about money , " mike said .
you can be just as good a guy as she thinks you are and as you are at this moment
prize short-stories--will their authors write our best-sellers of to-morrow ?
the shade of the trees with plenty of blood to follow .
" you ' re really about the best friend i have , jake .
andreson , you ought to go out and take a walk on a nice fall day like this , ’
“it’s good for me .
then , at the end of the fifth swing , he held the cape against his hip and pivoted ,
” “and , ” the major looked at him quickly , “that you are not corrupt ?
chance that you are seeking .
looping in the line with his left hand , nick swung the rod to make the line taut and tried
all of his friends were there .
“what’s your name ?
one time when my father was away on a hunting trip she made a good thorough cleaning out in the
' ' where would you like to be buried ?
good evening , my countess .
” “he doesn’t want to go out .
very good , b ' wana !
i know what he wants .
he just looked over our heads and said , “what’s yours ?
the sexton stood up from the table .
he took one look at the great fish as he watched the shark close in .
we were sunburned and our lips blistered from the sun and alkali dust .
“answer me if you’re all right .
" " always felt that way about dogs .
romero flicked his cape so the color caught the bull ' s eye .
makes you frightfully nervy .
he has had to leave town .
' ' we thought he was a buffalo , ' karl said .
“i must say he took it all pretty quietly .
and i liked him because i thought perhaps he would not have turned out to be a hawk either .
" not me , " said mike .
' much better than mincemeat .
owners wouldn’t let the captain chance coming in ; they say he wanted to try ; so she had to
this is where you can see how it all happened .
“come on out , ” claude called .
” “why don’t you ever get washed ?
the negro with the flat straw hat came out from the shadow of the house and hailed the first car
it bores me very rapidly , and i can detect it at over one thousand yards .
“aren’t you going to stay and eat ?
that was a long time ago on the black river .
" " you ' re coming on all right .
women ' s faces and knew that with that klaxon he could have had any woman in the tribe .
so it’s yellow stuff .
the two sable were watching us and i dropped my head , i thought they might be getting a flash
worn .
it was all that was left of the town of seney .
" romero was impressed .
' ' they ' re a long way away .
s bluff and torrington and after that you will begin to see it .
wheeler was headed for paris .
i listened to him being awake , for a long time .
' now we must walk or we will be too late for dinner .
it was funny to m ' cola to see a hyena shot at close range .
i made a circle to look for the big bull but i could not pick his track from the mass
' since when was it so bad ?
but you pick out somebody you never lie to .
” he shouted .
david could smell him and they could all hear him pulling down branches and the snapping that they made .
the same night actually .
we’re through with it .
if you don’t watch out you will bore her .
chapter xxvii upstairs the room was already done and the colonel , who had anticipated a possible messiness of locale
and we had the bags sent down and waited for robert cohn .
the girl went out and they heard her singing in german in the next room .
he had the flit gun again and as he pushed , wild- eyed and white-faced , into the room he
” “can i come in with you ?
” “oh , ” said nick .
they could not find any spoor , and then the wanderobo-masai called from below and to the right that he
they have people that will bring the bags .
he noticed how pleasant it was to have someone to talk to instead of speaking only to himself and to
is it wrong ?
the shell fragment went in one side and out the other .
" he was riding horseback .
the men had been brought in for the hanging .
” she kissed him and held onto him with both her arms .
in french we said , “un métier très sale .
' ' that ' s what makes a woman a universal favourite , ' p .
“come on , kid , ” he’d say , stepping up and down on his toes in front of the
would get now would be strays and unfortunates .
frazer said politely .
the leader had broken where the hook was tied to it .
make mud images .
i passed ney ' s statue standing among the new-leaved chestnut-trees in the arc-light .
supper and they drink one two bottles of wine , and their girls come too , and then they go
” “how would bacuranao be ?
he slid the carcass overboard and looked to see if there was any swirl in the water .
but remember to sleep , he thought .
he looked across the sea and knew how alone he was now .
” “no , i’m not .
the springfield was very wet when we got out of the car and i told m ' cola to clean
' ' thank him for calling , ' the colonel said .
“i went out just for that fight .
“i want a drink .
, was running brown , and up to the banks .
i had all the lights out .
' ' very much .
it is slop not on purpose but because it is hurried .
they went to fight .
“answer me , ” said the doctor holding a needle up in his forceps .
i’m sending you the letter .
" " maybe , " jack says .
fillets and one of the flying fish , gutted and with its head cut off .
” “i’ll get supper .
the grasshopper took hold of the hook with his front feel , spitting tobacco juice on it .
” they picked a huge wave this time and when it hung and curled to break roger threw them across
as he came running toward the bull , fixed again now , he passed hernandez standing with his cape .
the surgeon had been quite sceptical .
" i didn ' t mean to foul you .
” “you have the radio .
the road went on ahead .
" " yes , " frazer said .
" " you can ' t ever tell , " said bill .
and on the other side there is always kraut- _num_ .
” “i am the boss , ” said the doctor .
” two people came in the door and went up to the bar .
' he only costs me a day ' s wages .
fishing by pursuing them with your hands or trying to hit them with a hat .
” “the major is coming back at once , ” the adjutant said .
the edge of the bush .
“you people certainly lead lives , ” the waitress said .
" but we have .
“tell me .
' _piga simba .
he said something to the other people at his table , and stood up .
“you want to keep out of this .
' and as the car comes up and you ride in through the dust the bitterness goes and there is
he ' s just passed out on anis del mono .
then they went out of sight again and then they came pounding out and down the hill and all going
“the train comes in forty minutes .
there was a line of shattered houses on his left and the brick wall of the barracks on his right
" didn ' t come , eh ?
in the morning the drinks were on the house .
i can’t help it today .
i have many books of notes on them .
” he gave me a bar of chocolate and an apple out of his pocket .
“look at what he eats , ” they would say because the good lion only ate pasta and scampi because
you better take this letter .
" last night he had three bottles , " madame fontan said to comfort him .
he wrapped them in oiled paper and buttoned them in the other pocket of his khaki shirt .
” “it’s raining , ” he said .
a trout struck and nick hooked him .
luz wrote him many letters that he never got until after the armistice .
the waiter came back into the room carrying a tray with a big coffee-glass and a liqueur-glass on it .
i have lost everything here but i have more than anyone has in europe .
bell .
” “he’s wounded .
" " me ?
made up ?
he went under the anæsthetic holding tight on to himself so he would not blab about anything during the silly
' ' portrait , ' he said to the girl and to the portrait and to the girl both ;
he was reading red smith and he liked him very much .
“they didn’t say it .
i decided a good idea might be to drive along the road in the car , watching for kudu ,
you come in here and act snotty about my face and smoke my cigars and drink my liquor and then
her breathe , as the young breathe when they are easily asleep .
i ' m not much of a shot , and i ' d rather stay in that sack .
" " you are superior .
book and i make you any drinks you want while you read the paper and _life_ and _time_ and _newsweek_
' and we don ' t have too much luck , do we ?
" i ' m not pic-ing .
we were standing on the platform and the train started and i saw the prisoner standing there , leaning the
" pretty sheet .
to have weights , though , to hold him down , if there was a ring at the bottom ,
masai , and they wanted to know what we were going to do .
“look , ” i said to him .
but he ' s bitter about american women .
“that is the gaiety of drinking with a weakness of the chest , ” he said .
' ' i ' m quiet now , ' i said .
' ' plenty of other things .
i held the wheel with my knee and opened up my shirt and saw where mr .
” the bull turned , seemed to brace against the fence as he charged in a scramble , driving into
" " no , " bill said .
there was no part of the hook that a great fish could feel which was not sweet smelling and good
" " how are you , jake ?
did i tell you , daughter , that i love you ?
” “you won’t touch me .
" you don ' t know them ?
” “why didn’t you wake me , ” she said .
" " tell her i take a cold bath every morning , " guy said .
him breathing .
sheridan lays right up against them .
pain that came in a shining , unbearable , rising , blinding wave and swept him clean .
this is saturday .
it was a quarter past six .
” “leave him alone .
droopy held up his hand .
of emetine and with a ringing headache drowning it successfully in whisky-soda with pop on the porch , it dark
he probably had it mixed up with some other place .
they did not understand garrick ' s interpreting and the old man made the question clear .
the attack had failed before we came down .
“i’ll take a shower or do you want one first ?
" there ' s a place down the street , " i said .
” i guess that was part of the dream and why the hell shouldn’t it be ?
it is right up against the mountains , almost like schio .
“i guess so , ” said nick .
' he ' s got his rhino anyway , ' pop said .
" let ' s go up and see the boy , " the fellow called morgan said .
the heat , the flies , the indicative positions of the bodies in the grass , and the amount of
i had never seen such quick disinterested friendliness , nor such fine-looking people .
question and answer , i watched the most freshly brideful wife who stood a little in profile so that i
we’ll have a couple of children while i’m a minor .
" i found bill up in his room .
i don’t care about my body .
” “i’m very worried about him , and do you know that absolutely no one has come to see him
the shout was lost in the roar of the crowd , and he slapped the critic on the back .
fuentes , the tall gypsy , was standing holding a pair of banderillas , holding them together , slim ,
she was very angry .
he my brother .
auguste handed it to me and i waited until the first german on the bicycle was past the half-track and
the breeze was steady .
gets back in bed before his wife comes home from the show .
' ' whisky , ' he said confidently .
” “he’s lonely .
i asked you so many times to do it .
the birds had come into the old elephant trail to dust , walking neatly and plumply , and when the
” “i need that money for something , ” he said .
west wall .
" but you go up and see cohn .
' the girl said , and she ran her fingers very lightly over the scarred hand .
he liked to work in the sun on the farm because he did not have to and he loved manual
he despised them when he was away from them although he liked some of them well enough at the time
” then the cook spoke up .
' but for a big rhino you want to go up on mount kenya .
“they couldn’t hurt me .
" " sit down , jerry , " jack said .
" he ' ll take it , " the old man said aloud .
" i say , you were cold , " mike said .
, by a correspondent , and the order is to take it by assault .
“eddie says he going to come some night sleep in bed with you sister dorothy .
she don’t work .
' she smiled .
that was up on kalal .
' we went on up the road , the headlights making it seem like a boulevard after where we had
' ' i ' d love it too , ' the colonel said .
the locked doors of the shops , their windows lighted , the avenue broad and shiny and almost deserted .
meats , i think .
“do you feel better ?
" " it is understandable , " said the oldest porter .
“let’s have a drink , ” he said .
“if you knew the way they usually charge a stranger you’d know it was more than reasonable .
” “when would i get the money ?
but it was not the way i had thought it was going to be .
fourteen to nothing at the end of the first quarter and that it’s all right .
" " i believe he is very prominent .
“i know the people there .
the young gentleman came out of the hotel and asked him about the rods .
' do you want meat , or fish ?
michael ' s people have loads of money .
but it seemed like everybody steered clear of giving my old man any mounts .
" johnson asked one of the porters .
or at any rate they have intervened .
never brushed her teeth ever .
" he says to tell who shot you .
they all came up and charo stuck him to make him legal meat .
” nick was cooking the trout now .
you never should have helped her .
" " find any salt ?
where’s that girl anyway , he thought .
he wasn’t drunk .
that ' s too old for you too .
a waiter came in and stood beside manuel ' s table .
” “me , too .
if only one of the good ones doesn’t get knocked out at the start .
' ' very good idea .
" wasn ' t i going good , manos ?
' ' excellent , ' the colonel said .
the man next to bill was talking to him in spanish and bill was not getting it , so he
but it is a pleasure to meet one of the great old _querschnitt_ group .
“i’m a professional hunter .
' ' beech is , to an open fire , as anthracite coal is to a stove .
jack didn’t say anything .
" " drunk ?
' you were right too , ' he said , and palmed the two tablets .
" right through the back .
it ' s a face that ought to be thrown on every screen in the country .
traded away what remained of his old life .
“i don’t believe it .
it’s mostly been written already , ” mr .
what is a bone spur ?
he looked at me sort of funny with his derby on the back of his head .
can never feel in any other way than by yourself .
sometimes there was not enough artillery .
” “he does ?
” “you’re awfully practical .
zurito felt the moment when the horse was clear and the bull could come past , and relaxed the absolute
” “i have no fear .
later when it began to get dark , i walked around the harbor and out along the promenade , and
of château mouton-rothschild _num_ that was just as good as the last claret we had was rotten .
he believed that , that dyspeptic little joint-keeper .
far away as she could get .
the colonel spat on the pavement and said nothing .
" well , " he says .
" " well , " i said .
" " my god , yes , nice fella all right , " madame fontan said .
are you really afraid of them , or only talking ?
manuel , running again toward the bull , wiped his bloody face with his handkerchief .
johnson .
i paid the old man the amount pop said to pay him and a bonus .
” “very good .
" well , what are you smiling at ?
” “don’t be angry , ” he said .
" tell me where she is .
he looked at her hands , but he did not touch her hand with his .
' ' but why do you have to obey them when you know better ?
“big business , ” said frankie .
i ' ve just seen that kind of country before .
' ' good old mama , ' i said .
' you ' re a hell of a fellow , too .
” “when did you come back here ?
“we’re very well off on rations now .
i ' d look so like hell .
" the unhurried waiter asked .
in the dark the old man could feel the morning coming and as he rowed he heard the trembling sound
you sick ?
two years ago i could have married anybody i wanted , down at cannes .
“the beautiful red-faced mr .
' ' it will be worse than that , ' the colonel assured him .
well when she got back into the compartment with her paper and her evian water the suitcase was gone .
noticed the dark hollows under his eyes .
i knew he woke up dead for a drink .
brett sat at the ringside between bill and me .
i was having a bad time .
" what rot , " brett said .
” asked the porter .
" don ' t be afraid , " the major said .
but perhaps i will pick up a stray and perhaps my big fish is around them .
' ' he ' s got the luck , ' pop said .
i ' m going away to-morrow .
bill and i got down and went into the posada .
” “no , hombre .
kudu .
across one of the strips .
' be comfortable , honey dog , please .
" what will you drink ?
he had been in it and he had watched it and it was his duty to write of it ;
we could not find a table .
take the two of them out and hang them , i believe they understood .
it is a creole island view of the sort made familiar by the tropical watercolors of winslow homer , with
turner declined .
he settled comfortably against the wood and took his suffering as it came and the fish swam steadily and the
' ' you know many , many things .
about , so that it became more something that was going on with a definite end , and less of
it was very hot and the express from barcelona would come in forty minutes .
i just love you .
reduce the bull , to make him manageable .
the _gran maestro_ smiled and , still bowing , said , ' we are dining in the bar at the
he sure was fun and he done his work so hard and he’d finish up with a regular whirring that’d
the crowd were all about him .
they say they know me .
" " well , " i said , " we don ' t have to do it .
no , i’ll be in the chapel doing what i can .
" " hell , " i said , " all that makes a difference is if they got dough .
” “then he would know frederick j .
' for god ' s sake , ' pop said .
in the morning there was a big wind blowing and the waves were running high up on the beach and
“you know , i’d like to try another lion , ” macomber said .
“i was afraid to christy , ” george said , “the snow was too deep .
“it is my duty to speak , ” the extremaduran said .
but it is disheartening .
” “and vicente ?
" he left two glasses for the bottle , and we paid him for the sandwiches and tipped him .
close in front of his body , and pivoted again as the bull recharged .
i looked at p .
she was leaning back in the chair and the firelight shone on her pleasantly lined face and he could see
he put his hands in the water again to soak them .
they ' re down in rome .
" the proprietor asked .
“you go out and buy me a sportsman , will you , joe ?
there are people to whom you could not say insulting things .
and i ' m not thinking of the theatre , he thought .
into the woods .
i have seen monsieur work at the café on the corner .
what is there funny we should talk about ?
they were carrying tables out and setting them up under the arcade .
well anyway this regiment was rebuilt as american regiments always are by the replacement system .
” “oh , please stop it , ” she said .
i thought it was really hard .
' ' real ones ?
that will mean he’s turned that boy loose .
thank you , ” he said and looked me over very carefully .
“can’t you sleep , signor tenente ?
” “that man with evans is no good .
so i went on looking for something else .
and most of all you ought to have surprise .
” “we might try , ” said macomber .
" we only have double rooms , " the clerk says .
“i will .
i could make the line fast .
“thanks for coming to tell me about it .
he could hear her sounding like a stricken tank or t .
i am only better than him through trickery and he meant me no harm .
blessed art thou among women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb , jesus .
' what the hell have you got to lose on that resolution ?
" " i rather thought it would be good for him .
' ' i would like to know about the taking of paris .
i want to be a writer .
he lay there in his white shirt on the bed in the dark .
he stood up and the little man stood up and they walked down the aisle .
there was a midnight edition of the miami herald on the counter that some trucker had left and he read
it was a splendid booklet .
garrick was to go to the main camp to get his money .
" good , " i said .
so did i remember him .
you must be heavily armed , evans .
would be a bait waiting exactly where he wished it to be for any fish that swam there .
" " you ' re all right , carl , " joe garner said .
bill started to dance , too .
it looked a hell of a country to hunt .
morgan was sitting on the bed where jack had sat .
brought up cold beer from the cellar .
they could both see the two steel rods at an angle over the dark water .
if they don’t , shoot two and try to scoop the others out some way .
even though it is more expensive .
" " what a lot we ' ve drunk .
“no , ” said the bartender and put the glass cover back on the bowl .
stopped over .
' ' quite , ' pop said .
we can hunt oryx down there and get those zebra hides and get on after the kudu .
” he pointed the forceps at them .
we watched for gerenuk , that long-necked antelope that resembles a praying mantis in its way of carrying itself ,
she died last december then , and he notified the commune .
the crowd was the boys , the dancers , and the drunks .
' no , ' he said , dismissing the idea .
” “don’t show it to me until you want to then .
there was a pontoon bridge across the river and carts , trucks , and men , women and children were
" sometimes , my dear .
we’d go along fast for three minutes and then walk a minute , and then go fast for three minutes
' ' ' cola , ' i said .
he don’t look good at all but he never does much work in the ring .
" we ought to have gone .
" romero looked up smiling .
hard , sun-baked fields behind the bull-ring .
show off .
melting ice water of the cooler .
“i think you should go back .
the husband of the woman who ran the bal musette drove a taxi and when he , harry , had
it was just an ordinary razor .
what have we done to have that happen to us ?
that you say all sorts of unjust things about me .
“i wanted it so much , ” she said .
” “leave the kid alone , ” solly freedman says .
“i’ve never felt any such feeling .
” “tell me what’s up , ” said eddy .
and they treat me well .
“and we did wonderful things in the daytime too .
she was a very tall girl who walked with a great deal of movement .
" he spoke very angrily and bitterly , and looked straight ahead while he talked .
it was the weight of the sun .
" harvey stone laughed .
the stream was in nearly to soundings and as we came toward the edge you could see her running nearly
" that ' s the new development , " william campbell said .
it was too far away .
along the tracks there was a fence .
are you ready ?
it is not a _grand vin_ and bottling it and putting years on it only adds sediment .
there was more whisky than water .
the other two porters said " salut .
” “not the horses either .
he could be sure of that .
but the oddest thing about that day was how marvelously the pictures we took of the tanks came out .
” “do you think he’ll cooperate ?
we came around a curve into a town , and on both sides opened out a sudden green valley .
" they like me , " hernandez said happily .
proved to be living creatures who seemed to be dead through their quality of complete repose .
many of the people on the boat took her for elliot’s mother .
” “he is a fellow townsman , ” he said , “and he is in distress .
he had gotten rid of many things by writing them .
” feeling the slow hard throb under his fingers nick started to count .
we went through many towns and cities but it was raining in all of them and when we crossed the
let us forget her .
then they get to depending on the tanks and they won’t move without them .
' then when they filled the bases in the third game , you remember , it was too much for
the touch .
he had tiny eyes and tiny teeth and he kept himself folded in the box .
let it go , " brett said .
” “then can we be mr .
" anyway , he couldn ' t bring her over to be buried until the snow was gone .
they do keep the wind out though .
" " i distrust all priests , monks , and sisters , " said the thin one .
” “good , ” said hogan .
but there was nothing there at all , not even my paper clips in a cardboard box nor my pencils
that was morality ; things that made you disgusted afterward .
, there came the siren cutting , suddenly , to rise like all the pain in the world .
haven ' t we ?
bar next door .
just where we want to go .
one , and i tried to remember having read something about them , but all i could remember was a
” “i never did .
my father took out a package of cigarettes .
" remarkable thing , " he said .
he cut six slices .
when he came back , there were large framed photographs around the wall , of all sorts of wounds before
there was no applause .
spread wide and his legs drawn up and he did look a little like a butterfly ; not too much
the oil and never burned out that bearing in the truck .
haven ' t you seen them ?
their branches solid .
” “almost any time .
" " i don ' t know , " his father said .
” red answered .
make yourself into a claw .
he is beautiful and noble and knows no fear of anything .
what harm can it do ?
but this is how it was reported : " order a .
' ' that ' s bad .
manuel straightened it on his knee and ran toward the bull , standing now beside one of the dead horses
" " can ' t the steers do anything ?
he sat on his heels and watched for the safari .
, ” he said to his sister .
but i thought we might carry abdullah and garrick and squeeze in the wanderobo-masai .
“son of a bitch , i can get in .
they were not there , and i went over to the dingo .
" " yes , " i lied .
wind and this tide .
i waved and we were starting down hill through the village on a narrow track that led down and on
and to be able to size up and work intelligently you have to have a talent .
" " yes , i ' ll send him away .
" " don ' t you want another , jerry ?
" what do you think i ' m going to do ?
and you can pay me .
then he said to me , “well , are we going out ?
" " it ' s coming along good now since he spliced the bone .
i was going to take three spikes , one for each of them , and drive them into the temples
" " it ' s somebody to see you , mr .
my god , i make the sauce all right , and he eat it all and said , ' la
there ' s a big rhino there too .
" why , that one ' s a great bull-fighter , " retana ' s man said .
i mean let ' s not be hurried in our departure .
he could stand pain as well as any man , until it went on too long , and wore him
' when they were looking out at the grand canal where the light was , indeed , lovely , the
he had turned his coat collar up and pulled his hat down and his nose looked cold in the wind
there is no one worthy of eating him from the manner of his behaviour and his great dignity .
” he asked him .
" we want to eat in the first service .
' jackson asked .
they took a long walk along it in the late afternoon , swimming out , lying in the clear water
" it was a damned fine fiesta .
edge of the clearing , and climbed the rail fence into the wood lot .
across its baked surface as our car alarmed them .
to sit on had a lunch in the deep shade of a big tree , drank some beer , and
when it was possible .
” she did not answer and he finished eating .
” “if you want .
” “they moved so slowly , ” the girl said pitifully .
i am no longer interested in any but the picturesque aspects of the whole affair .
“go on to the mitin .
” “i can’t telemark with my leg , ” nick said .
it must be cold outside .
it had a picture of the concha , and said : " darling .
" should i bring the wine in , sir ?
' ' but i will love you , whatever that means , and you and i know what it means
fascism , macabre egotist , aviator , commander , or rider , in the first of the fast torpedo attack
feel badly .
" you couldn ' t do a thing like that , manos , " he said .
tell it , brett .
i ' ve been through hell , jake .
why didn’t you let me look after it ?
' that don ' t do them any good .
mike lay on the bed looking like a death mask of himself .
pebbly where he stood and pebbly and full of boulders beyond ; where it curved near the tree roots ,
he had them give us the beer .
" i can ' t get it .
and the birds are gone and the woods are no more fun to walk in and it rains and you
all the distances seemed wrong , to where they had made the attack with the newly arrived constantine of icers
" don ' t you say it , garner , " his wife warned .
” “just the size they want for the dinners .
the plateau was dull and gloomy , and the shapes of the trees and the houses were changed .
town .
“i promise .
' i ' ve learned it .
you got me here .
crooked way i walk , the combat boots (those , of that stripe , disliked the practicability of combat boots
in the rain , the drums sounding hollow and damp , and the chiefs of the bands riding ahead on
it ' s just like the old man tells them .
he fought wonderfully and everyone admired him and the man who killed him admired him the most .
never took drugs did he ?
part iii the son of a fellow member at territet in the station café at territet it was a little
” “yes , ” said “sliding billy” turner .
you ' re only a newspaper man .
she is kind and very beautiful .
” “i should say you’re not , ” said george .
anybody , anywhere .
there were many cars standing on tracks--brown wooden restaurant-cars and brown wooden sleeping-cars that would go to italy at five
" the uniform is not very correct , " nick told them .
" thanks .
” “another copita before you go ?
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--you ' ll get into trouble doing that some day .
there’s something about it , when they come out and go up the track to the post .
' may i help you ?
gone and i paid over six hundred pesos in my own money and now i need it and you can
they were ten centavos apiece and i told her to keep the change from a peseta .
he took out three more , each one a little bigger than the last , and laid them side by
it was softening him up .
the imaginary bull and made a third pass , slow , perfectly timed and suave , then gathered the napkin
the americans don’t like you to be catholique .
" none of your damn business , " al said .
john , ” the hired girl said , speaking very fast .
it was all a pleasant business .
when the burlesque show caught up with him he was in bed .
' ' don ' t please talk about it .
" did i know him ?
i never have .
of them would walk off together to the outdoor bar .
they looked at each other and smiled .
the trail climbed steadily , then twice looped back on itself and for a time seemed to wander , without
he lay on the ice , hitting it as solid as a duck can hit ice and , before he
i came out of water beside the raft , pulled up , dove once more , holding it for length
" " all right , i ' ll go to sleep now , " he said .
i took my drink with me and i was very proud not to have spilled it or forgotten it .
only it’s wasteful .
' ' don ' t think of anything .
people had been coming in all day from the country , but they were assimilated in the town and you
manuel took off his cap and the waiter noticed his pigtail pinned forward on his head .
top of a rock-strewn ridge that overlooked a deep valley that was almost a canyon .
" " is cohn gone ?
" it ' s soft , ain ' t it ?
he knew that now , even though the light was so good that every wave showed on the grand canal
“give me the book , i’ll put it in my pocket .
i do not think he would be easy to hit either .
buffalo ?
london news with its detailed drawings of the war so far away in europe .
nick opened the aluminum leader box .
" aficion means passion .
the chinky lights of the village , the mud houses all closed tight , and the smells of goats and
she ' s slept with lots of better people than you .
" he picked up the two heavy bags and carried them around the station to the other tracks .
then you wouldn’t worry .
” “’was he greater than you ?
“tastes good to a man .
“they will help me .
" funny .
the cowards .
i sat up there awhile on top of the house and watched , but the only fish i saw were
" " what ' s on your mind ?
" said the big one .
“tonani , ” the major called .
then he looked down at their feet , as you always look at the feet of such people , since
that seguridad bird she lives with has gone to valencia and she’s being true to him with everybody .
" i say , haven ' t you met bill yet ?
he had never felt it .
" " he ' s a sister himself , " the man in the stagged trousers said .
” then wham and he lit on his hands and knees beside the track .
' we want to give him plenty of time .
that seemed to handle it .
a country wears out quickly unless man puts back in it all his residue and that of all his beasts
the market fishermen can’t hold them tight when they do that even with a harpoon line .
hear the noise of skin and flesh ripping on the big fish when he rammed the harpoon down onto the
up and either they would stop and give him a ride or they wouldn’t and would go on by on
" " i do .
then he fell into the water with a crash that sent spray over the old man and over all of
when you see him start to hand me money the second time you put her ahead and hook her up
“when you want to see me i’m down in the office .
" say , signor tenente , is there something really the matter that you can ' t sleep ?
talk snotty .
they started way over at the far end of the course and there was some trouble at the barrier .
use the telephone during a thunderstorm after the time papa was hurled to the floor in the middle of a
all right , here ' s the last one .
' ' she is thirteen now .
” “if you run into any money bring it up here to the game .
" i hope the wind goes down , " brett said .
the earth along with gino ' s leg , both of randolfo ' s legs and my right knee-cap .
or practical and that was the sum total of direct sexual knowledge bequeathed him by his father except on one
but mr .
” “they all together still ?
the first thing she had to do was show her carte d’identité and try to prove she was not an
we sat in the shelter of the trees and sent the wanderobo-masai down into the valley to look for tracks
what is there to eat ?
” they showed white in the cypress hammock that rose like an island of trees out of the swamp on
because they write when there is nothing to say or no water in the well .
they were very brave boys from the sixth parachute division and they all shook and could not control it though
plucked , it meant nothing except to me and to m ' cola .
who the hell are you ?
campbell had said : “come in !
bull were one , romero way out over the bull , the right arm extended high up to where the
he knew the gin was bad for him too and he thought , everything is bad for me except rest
' ' of course , daughter .
' that ' s easy , ' she said .
then wilson shot , the roar deafening him , and he could see the bull stagger .
as we watched two got to their feet and seemed to be standing looking at us .
when he fell in love with brett his tennis game went all to pieces .
' ' i heard only one shot .
cola whisper ' b ' wana .
“listen , sergeant , ” the little man said .
' ' thank him properly and tell him he can ' t do that .
they were all smiling .
ad watched him and leaned forward .
" yes , " said mr .
the ice in winter , and each year there was less forest and more open , hot , shadeless ,
” “it sounded straight down in the campo .
you couldn ' t tell how english would mix with each other , anyway .
" he ate the other part of the piece that he had cut in two .
” john asked .
that makes the rest unimportant .
they were all very respectable .
everybody cheered kzar when he went by and he sure was one swell-looking horse .
one , wilson , the white hunter , she knew she had never truly seen before .
if fie don’t want us it’s none of our business .
they can ' t insult mike .
” “uh huh , and covers , too .
“that’s all right , ” doctor wilcox said .
” “don’t !
fuentes twitched the two banderillos and the light on the steel points caught the bull ' s eye .
there is no choice in the matter .
' ' better have some more beer , papa .
make good as writers or painters , after which , if they had not made good , they could go
all through the bog were snipe and black and white godwits and finally , not being able to get within
” “how can you say that ?
i know that conscience speaks in italics but sometimes you seem to speak in very boldfaced gothic script .
salud .
" see mike ?
_ _num_ d soldier_--what about some more wine ?
" his voice was very high and breaking .
“oh , absolutely .
there is one stretch of twelve miles beyond here you can never get through if it rains .
” “you ought to go to the movies more .
" " ten thousand francs .
some of those guys are nervous at night .
' ' but it takes money .
when he comes in , he decided .
he could remember an argument about it with hopkins , but not which side he had taken .
jerry ?
he knew where he was now and it was nothing to get home .
" you got an indian girl .
well down over his eyes to shade them from the lights , watching the distant door of the toril .
he’d feel badly if he knew it was you .
rather awkward .
" " it ' s wicked , " i said .
" " you know i love you .
' ' were there no good ones ?
was getting sleepy , so i prayed that the bull-fights would be good , and that it would be a
then i write and it’s just dull .
we had a bottle of wine apiece .
on this afternoon it was snowing and inside an automobile dealer ' s show window , lighted against the early
what time you call us ?
this time it was a tentative pull , not solid nor heavy , and he knew exactly what it was
" they truly beat me .
you can ' t go around looking like joan of arc or general (breveted) george armstrong custer .
" " he isn ' t right , " i said .
' so do i .
and they’ve always come .
she lifted his head a little and shook it .
now the problem was to so use the terrain that we might locate them , and get up and into
' ' but they were in the wrong .
who could say he was a real bull ?
they brought what paybooks there were and i put them in a canvas bag with the others .
” “but we’ll get rid of largo caballero , ” the short comrade said .
tell me truly .
' do you know what general thomas j .
if they don’t come now they’re never coming .
' but you can ' t fight on luck .
same way each time , the gun bearers all laughing , the truck that had come up with the outfit
but there is a chance that he succeeds .
being awake and dreaming .
come on back to hogan’s .
he had slept on his right side because he had a .
" well , that meant san sebastian all shot to hell .
“i wouldn’t trust him then , ” al said .
the minor vistas , the shops and the _trattorias_ and at old palaces of the city of venice while you
the car slowed suddenly pressing brett against me .
the blood was hot on his knuckles , and he was on top of the bull .
“here’s where the tough part starts , davey , ” his father said .
“we’ll meet another time .
g .
" if he ' s the president , you think we get the wine and beer all right ?
you know about that .
you know i met my ex-partner yesterday in london .
" " he stays with the wine .
some are dead and others still live .
he was all right unless he was exposed to liquor , or the opportunity to gossip , and nobody had
men were standing on the wall ready to pull up the gate of the corral and then the gate of
today was a good day and coming down to the camp with his rifle he was happy although their trouble
the charm of the good side had been enhanced by some event which had smoothed the other side of her
so i am .
he and the colonel both remembered the men who decided that they did not wish to die , not thinking
it was pleasant to be drinking slowly and to be tasting the wine and to be drinking alone .
finally he came in , and we bought a pretty good rod cheap , and two landing-nets .
“just for in an emergency .
” but walking down the stairs feeling each stair carefully and holding to the banister he thought , i must
“i don’t smoke , sir .
didn’t like it either way and they commenced to have disagreements , and one day she just went off and
” the nigger was still taking her out and i looked and saw he had seen a patch of flying
" paris is a fine town all right , " said the count .
he had to go wherever they sent him , i know , but i don ' t know what he
perhaps she could go along under the eaves .
it is too strong a thing .
i usually twirl a stick , or something , or point things out with a pencil .
then the rocket went up that meant the steers had gotten the bulls out of the ring and into the
mais je reste catholique .
” “i love you now .
his face was small and white and he had tight lips .
it seems too easy a solution to me .
i don’t know why .
' ' deader than phoebus the phoenician .
i don ' t mean anything when i curse him .
we put on our coats and started out .
' ' i was frightfully tired , ' pop said .
well , people were that way .
through being too young , he had learned how it must be to be too old .
attack .
” “it’s an awful story .
” “you might as well bunk with me , jerry , ” jack says .
" cochons , " i said .
" i never see you around .
as he lowered his head to hook , zurito sunk the point of the pic in the swelling hump of
pinned in my shirt .
" " i suppose there is no hurry .
' shoot him , ' said pop .
" no you won ' t , " the bartender told him .
i thought of trying to circle ahead with m ' cola and let them track but we were moving fast
" " see you at tennis , " he said .
heart .
” “kiss me , enrique .
i wouldn ' t do it .
" " i ' ll tell him .
wife , them both grinning with excitement , and wilson leaned forward and whispered , “see the birds dropping .
in cipriani’s nothing was changed .
all those mules with their forelegs broken pushed over into the shallow water .
" we turned to the right off the place contrescarpe , walking along smooth narrow streets with high old houses
it , and all that land we came through just now got flooded and started to breed mosquitoes and malaria
die and my interference with the nightly and the seasonal killing that went on all the time was very minute
we’ll know in a little while .
been badly , sickeningly frightened all the time .
" she went away and mr .
” “another fool .
” “roger , will you mind terribly if i go to sleep for a little while after lunch ?
they pulled the boat up the beach and nick lifted out a pail of live perch .
he felt quite proud of himself .
his white jacket was purple under the arms .
” “that’s awfully white of you , ” roger said .
not around , you settled for velasquez .
inside the port hole that was closest i could see something but i couldn’t make it out through the water
his rifle cocked , they had just moved into the grass when macomber heard the bloodchoked coughing grunt , and
fuck off .
everything’s fine really .
“you look very happy this morning .
“he wouldn’t get his travelling-clothes dirty .
" " i don ' t feel any way , " the girl said .
” the door had opened and they were crossing the old-fashioned marble lobby crowded at this hour with people waiting
so they stop at the bridge on his land .
" sure , " jack says , " i ' ll sleep now .
he did not want to rush his sensations any .
many of whom had doubtless never even read a review , that one has seen in the hot weather with
the truly unpopular guest .
one crow sat in a tree watching .
he put down the lamp .
they watched the other warden sitting at the table until he put his head on his arms .
“you won’t have a chance .
book iii chapter _num_ in the morning it was all over .
ignace .
but it was not out of any book .
there could be any number of people in the back .
he really sings very beautifully .
ten in ones were good .
he took the package in his free hand , squeezed it , put it in his handcuffed hand and holding
" " it ' s better .
“i know , ” he said .
there had been a grand theatrical season and a whole crop of great young light heavyweights .
do you think we could have lunch and then take a nap or read or something and then swim ?
" " that ' s an idea .
they all spoke in slang at the long table and there were many private jokes and some jokes at the
, the water splashing up out of the pipe in the sun and then ties and the swamp and the
” “because you leave the line , ” said the doctor .
think we called him the local harvard man .
nothing very fine could happen with a bull that could not see the lures , but the president would not
there _he_ lived .
i remember once at san siro , regoli , a little wop , that was riding for buzoni , came
' ' will you do your best not to die ?
' ' have to get him out .
" tell them not to bother santiago .
" you know , " brett said , " i ' m not worried about him at all .
loopholes in the wall of the corral .
” he went in and the conductor swung up and the train went out .
" i wish they didn ' t have the horse part , " cohn said .
“you smell so cool , ” he said .
we use these military titles as nicknames .
when we fought here , when we were boys , the _gran maestro_ and i , we won for one
i guess the way things are shaping up i had better let her sleep .
" i ' m not drunk now , see ?
_hebrew wine-seller_--gentlemen , you know i got to close .
' kufa !
his gray dusty face and his steel rimmed spectacles and said , “what animals were they ?
i knew then that they would all dance with her .
roger made a drink and settled down to read .
the tears were running down her cheeks and her face was working .
the river shallow ahead entering the woods , curving into the woods , shallows , light glittering , big water-smooth
as detached as the mirrors in a periscope or as a saint in a procession .
the canal was grey as steel now in the quick , failing , winter light and the colonel said ,
" it was the only way to kill him , " the old man said .
" this gentleman , " i said , " is a writer .
it was coppery and sweet and he was afraid of it for a moment .
the detective put the handcuff through the handle of a big suitcase .
and as soon as you are standing still and being light artillery , you’ve lost your mobility and that’s your
his eyes were shining and his hair was a little rumpled .
better get going .
sacked liquor can’t talk .
tell me , how was this city before the war ?
” nick stepped back .
it was too late in the spring to be up in the silvretta .
what did they have to shoot him for ?
he did not want anything making lumps under the blankets .
" he stopped and put his head under the sheet .
" " like a bloody politician , " nick said .
of the loyalists , helping to provide support for their cause and covering the war from madrid as a correspondent
he felt sick about saying good-bye like that .
she said “my god , schmidt est catholique .
" i don ' t think so , " he said .
" " i don ' t believe it .
waist .
, and the movement had no gallop , and the plain as far as you could see , gray-yellow now
the elephant was no longer traveling as he had been but was moving aimlessly now , feeding occasionally and david
” wilson stood up and puffing on his pipe strolled away , speaking a few words in swahili to one
perhaps you do the best of all .
" " so long , you chaps .
the sun was almost down and as i did not know the road i had the runner get up in
” “did you see anybody ?
slap and thud of the dung falling .
” “don’t ruin my afternoon , ” marcel said .
can we tow it in without ruining ours ?
each time was a new time and he never thought about the past when he was doing it .
he put his good hand down and found that the room waiter had left a second bottle of valpolicella alongside
all the other people from the hotel were doing almost what they had been doing when the accident happened ,
the germs of influenza can only exist in an acid condition , he explained .
you don’t know the fun it’s been to shoot with you .
perpetually .
' do you want your drink , daughter ?
different people asked for , and it was as real as minneapolis , where the revellers left their beds each
i was glad there were other things beside skiing , and i was glad to be down , away from
that’s the trouble .
you have been around a while , and we were always pleased to be across that particular place .
that’s a laugh .
” “i’m going to bring him in .
" i couldn ' t look away , though .
[_he sets down an earthenware pitcher that he has filled from one of the casks .
joe and frank were milking .
' morning , ' i said .
" not me , " said the thin one .
do eat those garlics .
' ' let us not name them .
' ' i have it ready , ' said the _gran maestro_ .
the entire operation will be practically painless .
i didn’t think we could do it that quickly .
” said the big one .
how’s the rest of it going ?
" you mustn ' t misunderstand , jake , it was absolutely platonic with the secretary .
she hired out for that .
” “but he is my brother .
” he was talking to a man who was no longer listening .
wire leader and tying the hook good so it couldn’t slip and so the bait would troll smooth without spinning
" " is he a count ?
' ' five , i think , ' said dan .
“now let’s sleep a while , john .
they had made him feel weak as you are weak with a fever , and he had known the inability
' the colonel said with anticipation .
she tells all the stories that reflect discredit on me .
then the music started up again and he jumped up and twisted away from me and started dancing .
" then a little later , " well , " he says , " they ' re right .
he was almost crying .
but no one ever commanded from that far back in history .
” “mandarlo al carajo , ” said cayetano , who was very tired .
that’s right mr .
before the sun .
” “that’s all right , ” she told him .
“now let me tell you something more about largo caballero .
rest gently now against the wood and think of nothing .
what did he ever do to you ?
i’ll understand .
don’t think you can’t hear it crack , either .
chapter xxiv his true love was at the table at the exact time that she said she would be .
" " it was a trick , " peroxide said .
' ' he writes every night , you know .
also the kidneys , but they are all right .
fontan he ' s going to have the wine .
go see your friend , or maybe it ' s your mother .
highly seasoned .
“you should have married him , ” the cook said .
' ' i would like that .
arriving where the munition plant had been , some of us were put to patrolling about those large stocks of
' ' i ' m sorry , jackson .
chapter iv it was a frightfully hot day .
” “i’m sure your appearance will be very heartening to the troops .
" i say , you are slow on the up-take , " she said .
it ' s such a long time though .
“it’s all in the bill , ” he said .
“they don’t really look like white elephants .
' ' all of three hundred .
" you never come here any more , monsieur barnes , " madame lecomte said .
“but i think he’ll be all right .
mailboxes at the crossroads and out onto the charlevoix highway .
“very brave , ” said paco .
he fixed him with a swing of the cape , squarely facing the horse and rider , and stepped back
' morning , ' he answered in that husky whisper .
" " jacob .
and when i tell him he just cries and says he can ' t marry .
bored .
it would have been possible too .
“run .
he cantered jerkily along the barrera .
there ' s nothing but that horse part that will bother you , and they ' re only in for
but he never hated them ; nor could have any feeling about them .
we ' ll go in on the afternoon bus , i ' m afraid .
“and i’ll tell you the rest if it doesn’t bore you .
“you better not , ” i said .
the pear trees had been sprayed , and the walls of the houses were stained a metallic blue-green by the
.
as the door was shut .
when i was a little girl i didn’t like the smell of the hops in the carts .
and you don’t want to play with me ?
let me repeat it .
“well , ” john says to him , “jack’s spotting you about four pounds .
the old man could see that he was very tired .
so , when the girl turned her head a moment to watch a morning drinker go out to the door
well , at different places then .
" is it the gentleman ' s birthday ?
you would have liked her then , really .
" so many people in the ward , " the mexican said deprecatingly .
any time you show me one that doesn’t want to get down off the cross when the time comes—when the
” “not really .
i did it because i couldn’t help it .
i’m wide awake now , signor tenente .
" " you ' ll be one .
but i want us to get out west .
" " damned noble of you .
it there took out a cigarette with his free hand and gave it to the man beside him .
i’ve loved you all my life and if that’s possible it’s possible to be happy isn’t it ?
" i heard they ' d cut your leg off , " retana said .
' thank you , ' he said .
' always .
“it was probably bad busting it off , ” bill said .
as they came up , all these things of the house , and you didn ' t send any money
he leaned his back against the weight of his pack where it rested upright on the stump and got his
stanley .
on this evening every one had left the dining room except the hawk-faced picador who drank too much , the
" son of a bitch , i can get in .
the boy had copied it exactly from the book and used the original title .
when we’re enthused from any cause .
' i hate the war monuments , though i respect them .
maybe they can .
' ' you weren ' t born then .
now let me tell you about them .
then he straightened himself and began another circle .
and could never get the blood of hindu traders off her whiskers even when she rubbed her face in the
it seem vain to try to do it , is because it is so difficult .
" " you ' re right i said it , " said the tall waiter .
jerk against the fish .
” they were both silent .
unfortunately , the canal gates were still in the austrians ' hands down the river , and they were closed
he isn ' t the way he looks in a photograph .
she put her arms around him and he felt her standing , fresh and cool from the shower , not
were .
” “they can’t make it fast enough to keep you a good man , ” i told him .
” “no , ” said paco .
” “yes , if you like .
maybe i ' ll be able to later .
" as he said anis del mono one of the men at the table looked up , brought out a
” ole andreson rolled over toward the wall .
on the other side was a thorn-brush-fenced cornfield , a steep , stump-scattered bank with corn planted all over it
he looked all around the way i had done .
plus an artichoke vinaigrette if you can find one .
then ahead and to the right we saw the high stockade of a masai village .
cure the skins anyway .
“it was a wonder , ” manuel said .
" " the major is coming back at once , " the adjutant said .
“i understand your hatred , ” i said .
" he has no more than the shirt on his back .
love for those who had been there and had received the castigation that everyone receives who goes there long enough
' the portrait was as silent as she had been since the concierge had brought her into the room ,
off .
” “we could have fun stopping and poking around .
” “from me , ” said the smallest one , “he won one hundred and eighty dollars .
“an italian , ” said the guard .
she died last november .
' ' thank you , sir , ' said jackson .
their phosphorescence as they threw themselves on the fish .
' the short one is the two nudist sportsmen .
before except in the illustrations of a book at mrs .
say something funny .
" you see that one ?
when they signed off at four o ' clock in the morning it was five o ' clock in the
in the night he was cold and he spread his mackinaw coat over his sister and rolled his back over
' i suggested .
then they came out into a clearing .
his watch was a little fast .
" i corked up the fundador bottle and gave it to the bartender .
the glasses were the biggest hazard and i used to carry four handkerchiefs and change them from the left to
he had turned at bay as soon as he had reached this cover and he was sick with the wound
' he was talking too much to regain confidence quickly .
" we went up in the elevator .
what i mean is i know where i ' m going and i want to think .
he goes everywhere in baedeker , and he has no taste in either food or wine .
they couldn’t tell anything about me if my hair was cut .
' ' good night , ' he said .
that and shaving .
“go on , hopper , ” nick said , speaking out loud for the first time .
stepped down from the buggy .
you have anything to say in your defence except to put your head back ?
all i want is you happy .
" sit down , gentlemen .
i think the story business is dangerous .
” “you’re a good tank man .
the man was short and dark with glossy black hair that did not seem to go with his strange face
” “the car will protect us .
there are gallons of it , ” the friendly soldier said .
” “you pick out what you need and make a list and i’ll check it over with you .
“thank you , ” said paco .
william campbell ' s interview with mr .
wouldn’t mention it to any one though .
“you haven’t got a cigarette ?
occasional condom or a deep floating corset , the torn leaves of a student ' s exercise book , a
“what makes anyone talk the way they do ?
uncle george sat in the stern of the camp rowboat .
“it means about family .
” “i can pitch better than lots of the boys .
you ski the same ; controlled and good .
, even though the designation may mean nothing by the time this work is published , yet it is unfair
we want to get home to our own house .
all right , ' said pop .
" " what do you mean ?
eland , and another oryx i had not seen before running with the kongoni .
then he added , sometimes .
cows .
anyway if we were just here for fun we wouldn’t be here .
" ho !
further in .
" " not for a week .
" " i ' m going to lie down a while , " jack says .
' shut up , you actor , ' i said .
” “i suppose what i did was to forget to put iodine on it when i first scratched it .
i went up-stairs .
why has no one helped him or done anything for him ?
he lay , no longer thinking , quite happy .
few mango blossoms whose stems had not died .
a shot , but in the night they fed out into an open stretch of country and if he could
door .
you’re so beautiful that i’d be happy just to look at you .
tuna held crosswise in his mouth .
and after they had been cured by the machines .
a plane , that her mother was her mother .
cut a slice of ham .
but you have a right to .
books or in the films .
masks , empty gas-mask cans , a squat , tripodded machine gun in a nest of empty shells , full
is the head any better ?
do you think i’ll bore you because i’m twenty-two and sleep all night long and am hungry all the time
” “the nigger can do it faster than i can .
" it ' s pretty nice out in the country .
his arms were spread wide and he had one leg drawn up .
" i ' d be as big an ass as cohn , " i said .
” zurito rode by , a bulky equestrian statue .
he didn’t like it .
” “the bears are bulling again , ” said george .
" i ' m clear enough in the head , he thought .
mallard , pin-tail , widgeon .
the other letter was a wedding announcement .
the discipline of flaubert .
some from his lot and i put a piece between two pieces of liver on a stick and started it
sure , you couldn ' t make a living .
she swung stern in .
” wilson looked at him appraisingly .
" mike must have been in bad shape , " she said on the stairs .
chapter _num_ it was baking hot in the square when we came out after lunch with our bags and the
” “yes , ” i said .
but he didn ' t feel like it .
they were in the hammock and i got up to get them but he found them and put them out
i don’t know anything about it yet except that it’s like medicine .
the coffin was loaded into the baggage-car of the train , and the widow and the two children rode ,
" retana leaned forward across the desk and pushed a wooden box of cigarettes toward manuel .
then in the quiet water i turned and floated .
what the hell did he have to blow that lick to hell for the first morning and gut-shoot a lousy
only peppermint tea .
" " i saw him in the moving pictures of the fight , " tom said .
was pleased .
things really stood .
the way the six had lined up in single file and rushed that door was very impressive .
' well , there goes my career , ' he said to the girl .
there are other streets in paris as ugly as the boulevard raspail .
finally his trail crossed the dry watercourse about where we had first come in sight of the meadow in the
motor car too .
you have no pity .
have you ?
" * * * * * that night i had dinner at fontan ' s .
i went out .
' it ' s wonderful .
“it is your room , isn’t it ?
but we’re not going to kill people , nickie .
each one was trying to force the other ' s hand down onto the table .
“i wonder if he got one .
i must get back to trieste .
the two indians sent them back to the shanties .
is this too technical and does it bore you ?
we would have to get the men and go over it all again ; and then , from the old
and let it go which way it will , he that dies this year is quit for the next .
" no bulls to-day .
i ' d best stop on here , though .
“just as clean as you want them .
michael came toward us from the tables .
turned them and tended them , and there was much talking .
that wrench was too light .
john asked the down-state man .
the nigger’s eyes watched him as he rose on one knee , his right arm dangling , took the hand
just above the hook or your bait will float on the water .
” he kept sounding with a grains pole , motioning me on with the pole .
" " not in the summer .
the canal , but the banks weren ' t like this river .
they were very tough and they had very good taste in building .
i haven’t sat still this long for a long time .
she looked younger today , more innocent and fresher and not so professionally beautiful .
“sure .
“i heard you , ” the down-state man said .
" let ' s go over .
it was cold after the sun went down and the old man ' s sweat dried cold on his back
“what do you mean ?
seemingly he watched the white horse , but really he watched the triangular steel point of the pic .
finally he ' s so he can ' t keep from sleeping .
" " we ' re going to the fiesta at pamplona .
" the count was beaming .
the first one in is the one that counts .
" " it ' s a lovely nose .
as the skillet grew hot the grease sputtered and bugs , crouching on long nigger legs over the fire ,
then the main road went off to the left , skirting the woods and climbing the hill , while you
, and her head was on his chest , and her hair spread across his old hard neck ; and
he likes to think i’m crazy and i don’t mind .
' ' but other soldiers wrote .
spider kelly taught all his young gentlemen to box like featherweights , no matter whether they weighed one hundred and
go on and laugh , " said bill .
not yet married , and i know he would feel very badly if he knew that , so far ,
' he had made another decision .
we discuss all things .
" looking through the window i could see where the wine was stored .
i wished to be , and was , a general officer in the army of the united states .
“bright boy can do everything , ” max said .
' the waiter opened the windows and the north wind came into the room .
i wrote out for him where to eat in milano and the addresses of comrades .
“look , ” said the second waiter who was a man of fifty .
_hebrew wine-seller_--here you are , gentlemen .
" " he never had a chance to do anything to us .
“i knew they couldn’t beat our lady , ” she said .
_ _num_ st soldier_--oh , they faded out .
" you give me much good counsel , " he said aloud .
" " that would be different .
i have seen them , and i can smell clearly where an old bull has lain in the forest .
_wine-seller_--i ' ll tell you , gentlemen , i wasn ' t out there .
why didn ' t you find out from the concierge ?
but he ' s my next-door neighbour .
, and that if he had died it would have meant nothing to me except that we would be short
fellows like me and the chef got a point of view .
” he breathed on the sheet and stroked his nose against it .
the houses of the town were broken by the shelling and the street had much rubble of plaster and mortar
but regardless of how they started i hope to see the finish of a few , and speculate how worms
the aforesaid andy’s mother thought she would bring down my stuff so i could have it with me and be
i never liked that camp , nor the guides , nor the country .
there had been a little rain , the day before , though not enough to flood the lick , which
all in all , this finca vigía edition contains twenty-one stories that were not included in “the first forty-nine .
jacob barnes !
' ' so do i .
and we knew it was no use .
lockboxes and its general delivery and stamp window .
' i ' ll write you a piece some time and put him in .
the mexicans came and brought beer but it was not good beer .
' it was the bull , ' pop said .
manuel got up , found the sword and muleta , tried the point of the sword with his thumb ,
i motioned to one of the guides to go back with p .
” “we ought to have gone last night .
beside the road .
" " you shut up .
" why don ' t they change him ?
it down without gagging .
between his thighs .
" i fight where i can because i am an austrian and i know my duty .
they made the water smooth and deep above them .
short grass on hard ground where a blood spot was a dry , black blister on a grass blade ,
that was why i was to be sure to take her .
' ' later , in the car .
' far ?
’” she was sitting stiff and straight beside him now and she had no tone in her voice at all
manuel chopped the muleta back and forth in front of the bull .
" " he ' s not dead , " mike said .
but i love you .
" " no , it isn ' t .
“my boy is in the one hundred and forty-fifth brigade .
we never talk about our clients .
they were good positions and it _might_ have been impossible to move him out of them without something mighty and
' listen , mac .
“look , littless , i’m going down to get a few trout for supper .
of the ring were running and bowing two men dressed like tramps , followed by a third in the uniform
the old man was trying with both hands to keep the line just inside of breaking strength .
“hello fish face , ” he said .
harris’s table .
" " don ' t , " she said .
” “we are catholique , ” i said .
the first grasshopper gave a jump in the neck of the bottle and went out into the water .
” “oh shit , ” red said .
" wasn ' t i , though ?
" a man must not marry .
“yes , ” nick said , lying , his face on the blanket .
the foundations of the mansion house hotel stuck up above the ground .
" he should be in bed .
when it got dark i could always pick up the light of the morro or , if she drifted up
" " what do you mean , mike ?
on the walls of the houses were stencilled eye-bugging portraits of mussolini , with hand-painted " vivas , " the
' ' due to the lack of rainfall , ' the colonel said .
english constructions .
“up in the hut i used to think about it a lot .
' you did not shoot him ?
“this is fine .
there were signs on the walls of the churches saying it was forbidden to play pelota against them , and
he’d look after it right away .
it was there exactly as it happened with some parts of it indelibly emphasized and he was miserably ashamed at
later i went out with a friend and got my things from his place .
you know what two thousand yards is , daughter , in a war when you are attacking ?
" " say , give me another shot of that , " manuel said .
frazer ' s wheeled chair .
jack rose with george the barman .
" what do you think about , jack , when you can ' t sleep ?
“but he could be listening outside .
” “you can make it neater .
“go in there , you slob , ” he says .
she told a lot of people you were engaged .
' when we have so little time , richard .
skirted the high edge of the meadow and then were in timber again .
that is the good thing about you going to die that you can ' t leave me .
" well , you get your boy friend to sleep ?
” “for today ?
it was not very long before they came on the secret .
" you tried to buy it with eighty-four days at sea .
have you seen them ?
hundred thousand chinamen here .
because i am not doing too well at this .
this woman had an attractive , plump , naturally gay face and her mourning was incongruous .
this was the hell of an animal .
' bach was practically a co-belligerent .
" they show the hour all over america .
“no , i suppose not , ” nick said .
" i haven ' t seen madrid .
that bambini theory is as far as i ' ve thought it through .
” “all the fun we’ve had .
' the fewer people when you ' re after kudu the better .
" you liked it ?
kate had both her legs stretched out against his back as though she were resting them on a log in
” kate pressed all the way up for answer .
" " how much money has he got ?
all we old clients of chicote’s had a sort of feeling about the place .
why don ' t you say something ?
you really can .
but he would not go through all the talking .
“all right , then , you bastard .
other place , as michigan , or the prairie north of town and the woods around evan ' s game
” “i wish you wouldn’t , ” she said .
' ' you hold up your attack two hours and you drink champagne whenever it is offered to you by
there were many cars standing on tracks—brown wooden restaurant-cars and brown wooden sleeping-cars that would go to italy at five
" " you don ' t know him like i do , jake .
i’ll always love you .
he was a man i would be glad to spend half my time in hell with ; and may yet
” “come out after supper ?
water that nearly pulled me overboard the way we were going , and cleaned her off good with a scrub
” “i got to kill him .
there was a brass plate on the oak shield the bull ' s head was mounted on .
" " i am a poor idealist .
his left hand , stepping on the gained line each time with his bare left foot .
” asked the lady .
, but he made his living by them ; and their standards were his standards as long as they were
” “that’s a closest i see fascist since fuentes del ebro .
romero never made any contortions , always it was straight and pure and natural in line .
you know each other ?
we went back to our seats in the other car .
“let’s stick together through it .
i went out onto the sidewalk and walked down toward the boulevard st .
" " don ' t you dance , count ?
your gs live in the c .
browned side up , the other sizzling .
after about four rounds jack has him bleeding bad and his face all cut up , but every time walcott’s
the american lady did not hear .
walcott put his hand on jack ' s shoulder and they stood there just for a second .
he likes those hides .
fields of the poppies that they raised for opium and how strange it made you feel , finally , and
what became of them ?
is the place ?
“you see that one ?
' he stepped out of the car and walked across the wide , hard-surfaced road and looked at the narrow
period , he added in his mind .
they had bolted , too , before he got the picture .
you smell wonderfully even in a high wind or under a blanket or kissing good night .
] no , come on .
pillow but now i needed them very badly .
free .
he had expected that answer ; now he had it .
from the dew , and the sun was quite high .
did you sleep all night ?
that was the funny thing .
i’ll give you a little one .
we’ll take this crazy up to headquarters .
with your ton-load of fear .
all right , i said .
' let the guide carry that , ' i said .
it isn ' t ours any more .
" " ledoux and somebody .
the doctor skipped quickly behind him , tripped him and , as he fell to the floor , kicked him
writer and national hero , certified and true if you must have heroes , and the colonel did not believe
" " i ' ll scream , " the girl said .
” she held herself stiff because she was so frightened and did not know anything else to do and then
at the field , the roman ' s huts , and the stockade where we had camped , and the
' ' i saw him in a book-shop once .
that i could do anything and that i can write wonderfully .
under another was the old man , the sable head beside him like some black-mass symbol , his equipment hanging
" " how long have you been this way ?
” “were your books all right ?
the two of them followed the elephant until he came to an opening in the trees .
“well , here’s looking at you , d .
" " i ' ll pic him , kid , " zurito spat on the sand .
as soon as i baited up and dropped in again i hooked another and brought him in the same way
the referee had been holding walcott back with one arm while he counted .
“look , ” he said .
i ' m eating with him .
was all in them and all gone out of me because i had worked on newspapers since i was very
frazer said .
” “do you think we paid too much for the car ?
honest , watching the race i’d forgot how much my old man had bet on kircubbin .
” macomber felt a wild unreasonable happiness that he had never known before .
“you won’t mind the keeley .
that gets it , ” said his father and put something into the basin .
” the cement road stopped .
" want a chair ?
the head of the valley was in heavy shadow .
how could anyone do a thing like that ?
i never liked to keep anything .
' ' no , ' he said .
it was hard pulling for the horses and the boys got down and walked .
you are a fortunate young man .
' ' no , ' the colonel said .
they were well ahead of me and it was no use trying to catch them .
' ' do you want to draw first ?
' ' some of them .
three shots , heap s--t , ' and i got out the dictionary to translate it for m ' cola
i thought with the four-seven i ' d kill him or miss him , ' i said .
” billy was very depressed .
“is a too many people crazy .
" walcott had been just hitting him for a long time .
turning off the electric light he continued the conversation with himself .
' i am just a woman , or a girl , or whatever that is , doing whatever it is
where do the trucks go ?
” and three days later we left milan for good on the turin train for paris , after an auction
but one of our neighbours told her how to prepare them and these same neighbours ate them with us .
we were out of the park country and on to the dry bush-spattered plain before the sun went down and
oh please , please , please my dear love .
” “i don’t want to trade you for a brother .
the water was buoyant and cold .
' karl agreed to the plan for us to move ahead into the new country , and for him to
she said good night and took my arm .
the brush and we chased it but we couldn’t find it .
" come in again .
" freedman just looks at him .
and went off more discouraged than ever , to get the official guides .
' the contessa is not at home , my colonel , ' he said .
” “most of that stuff from the palace stinks .
the medals come later .
“i have made my report , comrades , ” baldy said .
“we’d stay outside the four-mile limit , ” nick said .
" there are officers from the fort .
it looked narrow now and almost like a big river .
and this knowledge is wrapped in the rhetoric like plums in a pudding .
” “well , we’re going out to alcalá .
wheeler said .
” she looked at him with her well-known , well-loved face from spur and town & country , only a
yes , you must write the stories and they must be as good as you can write and better .
but are they worthy to eat him ?
next year i can do it .
" i was thinking .
“i can’t slide , billy .
there are boxes of ammunition .
there was only one person in his family that he liked the smell of ; one sister .
_] you couldn ' t let me have a little something on account , lootenant ?
his sword was as long as a baseball bat and tapered like a rapier and he rose his full length
is that her portrait that you have wrapped up in the back of the car ?
' ' i was kids in ' twenty-nine and ' thirty .
though that is unjust .
he was a delicate old man who used the slang and knew the popular songs of his period of military
“we’re both tired .
“if eddie gilby ever comes at night and even speaks to dorothy you know what i’d do to him ?
” “how long ago did you leave vevey ?
” “he killed a buck deer the twelfth of last month .
already there was something mysterious and homelike .
bull , who stood , dropping his head , pawing , unable to make up his mind to charge .
chinamen can write all rich .
the woman is nice .
" he was that way all week .
' you must be most careful not to mention him , my dear .
m ' cola shook his head .
of the bull .
and pop were , found a deep flowing stream where teal were flying , and killed three .
lit on the hillside below .
“how about something to smoke , jack ?
” “i’ve got a headache .
" let me send for a drink .
" " the _num_ th .
” “at this range—” “it’s not very sporting .
“give me back the card and put your gun away .
' ' but was that all you had to fight to take such a city ?
talk and tell stories and shoot pool and it’s sort of like a club or the galleria in milan .
“be yourself .
' can i say it to the _gran maestro_ ?
we started out the door .
et après elle a vomis dans ses shoes .
, you walked , stooping , in a steep tunnel of vines and foliage .
there was nothing before .
and he went around the paddock putting his feet just so and quiet and careful and moving easy like he
looking down on the other side was the woodshed roof , the fence and the hills .
' good-bye , my colonel , ' he said .
" " shut up , michael .
he cut a piece of line and tied the fish ' s lower jaw against his bill so his mouth
' " the priest looked at her again .
” “what would i do if i was hooked to a fish like that ?
in the spring and there are little plumes of sand that rise on the bottom where it’s bubbling .
“all right , ” said nick .
they had surrounded it .
“why , that one’s a great bull-fighter , ” retana’s man said .
it was a long speech for her .
me that you might be a member of the national geographic society .
" " baseball i think , " the boy said .
i lay down beside my old man , when they carried the stretcher into the hospital room , and hung
but nobody has any manners .
sun had not yet burned off the dew from the grass i suggested we drink a bottle of that silver-paper-necked
” “oh , you don’t understand , ” the boy said .
across the plain it was dark , and we could see the mountains .
he wanted them long and solid to hold in the ground .
fuller flower .
in the trees but he could not see any flag pole , or any dock , only the white of
then it went slack .
' ' did you go to all our places in the market ?
i listened to him snore for a long time and then i stopped listening to him snore and listened to
bring me all the feldbuchen and you hold the money for splitting .
” “we’ll be here when you get back , ” said another crap shooter .
nor the process which led to their construction .
the second kudu and waited there until they came with the flashlight and then , remembering that i had skinned-out
' ' i would love some lobster , ' the girl said .
whenever you wished but we only talked it over last night .
“mussolini has abolished the brothels .
but sometimes the people on your flank would not attack .
" right away .
“i hope to god he was , ” peroxide said .
“eat all you can .
“it is just .
' ' i _didn ' t_ believe in the regime .
” “all right then .
twice against the door .
“do you want a frappe or drip ?
he had not had the old death loneliness since the first time the night before .
“i’d like to do it as a favor .
" " Ça va , " said the other porter .
and this morning i feel as though i might be one .
she was a raging inferno .
garrick started to talk in a loud voice .
lincoln just freed the slaves on a bet .
” “what company does he command ?
“let’s go down to the station .
" let ' s get some beer , " john said .
there are three things that are brothers : the fish and my two hands .
" want to take a turn out to the park ?
" my learned counsel was blind , too .
" " really ?
' below , at the bottom of the canyon , we could see the tops of high trees and in
“mademoiselle , ” he called .
reverse of the bible .
he had been in that station before and he knew there was no upstairs to go to .
” “you’re really capturing him single-handed , ” said the secretary admiringly .
' ' i hope so , ' the colonel said .
they would eat by themselves .
mrs .
” he pulled up the back and leaned over .
" be patient , hand , " he said .
in the damp pads the gut leaders had softened and nick unrolled one and tied it by a loop at
" nick showed him the tessera with photograph and identification and the seal of the third army .
i do not think he ever missed a day , although i am sure he did not believe in the
they lay alone or in clumps in the high grass of the field and along the road , their pockets
there had been smoke in the room from the open charcoal fire ; no , there were logs , he
david had stood still and listened to the elephant feeding .
i suppose you’ve learned how to sleep too .
the high door that led into the bull-ring was shut .
traffic .
the negro ' s shadow was huge and it moved on the wall as the breeze moved the lamps .
please stop talking about it .
" " i thought he shot you first and the russian after .
“i’m sorry i talked the way i did at lunch .
and we don ' t know what the next changes are .
it’s an hour later tonight and two hours later than when you found him .
as full as any diaper with one vast , final , yellow cataract that flows and dribbles on after he’s
" they say his father was a fisherman .
” he says .
the narrow streets of the town since early morning .
“you fire on one slit .
' aren ' t you frightfully hungry ?
" i don ' t want any more of that .
behind all came the two trains of mules and the bull-ring servants .
“he’s all right .
" " then i ' ll do it .
reflections like these would not allow me to despair ; i started up and , disregarding both hunger and fatigue
it was all wet .
the only real result had been a few prisoners , and these had been confided to the tank men to
what was it you were going to do ?
suppose he shoots a woman or a child .
” “where’d you get him ?
” “‘vice is a monster of such fearful mien , ’” the young man said bitterly , “that to be
i looked at the count .
little waves came in with it .
the ram ?
" " all right , " george said .
" i ' m rather drunk , " mike said .
“get him then , ” retana said .
i guess the nearest is that it looks as though someone had cut her hair off on a wooden block
“you observe it ?
how every one he had slept with had only made him miss her more .
the colonel said to pay for it and hold it for him .
” “there’s that whole other bottle in the carton that isn’t opened .
how fresh they are and you down there six hundred feet in that cold water in the dark .
i don’t seem crazy to you , do i ?
but i’m nervous .
“do you have any hindu trader sandwiches ?
he tightened the pressure of his thumb and finger for a moment and the weight increased and was going straight
“have some more eland , ” he said to her politely .
' ' probably just the same as when i answered that same question for you at noon .
' you wanted combat for what ?
” “see us ?
” “is .
” “it would be better if i were gayer , ” he said .
" " south germans , " i said .
” “yes , ” i said , “but we didn’t get it .
maybe he’s never even been to this creek ever .
we ain’t going any pace here , and they ain’t really bad jumps either .
to-morrow , sable , buffalo , simba .
“you want to do anything now ?
“do you mind ?
and rocketing swayingly over the uneven ground , drawing up on the steady , plunging , heavy-necked , straight-moving gallop
it ' s a sunday morning , you know .
but this lady---- ' ' young girl , ' interrupted the _gran maestro_ with his whole-face smile .
swim and picnic from havana .
he wouldn’t be any use .
” “she reads books all the time .
cohn said he was going over and get a shave .
it ' s all been published .
" " we are of two different kinds , " the older waiter said .
especially in a foreign country .
" harris called the waitress .
use his own boat and have him fixed .
santa claus , clean and rosy-faced and whitehaired , and waddling when she walked .
" " bought me a drink .
” “i think we have a right to for a little while .
the sunlight was hot and hard , and i crossed over beside some buildings , and walked back along side-streets
” “he’s on a drunk , ” i told him .
we went out into the street again and took a look at the cathedral .
_num_ gibbs and grinning .
the young gentleman had a musette over his shoulder .
i read quite a bit .
everything that shows on the surface today travels very fast and to the north-east .
the coffee-boy looked at manuel’s pale face curiously .
' do you like it neat ?
' unless you are a mechanic .
he’s taking care of his appearance now .
' ' what ' s that ?
fact .
no , " she said .
' this askari , ' m ' cola explained .
how many mornings have you sat in the row with all the others ?
“he writes her every day .
' i ' ll go as far as he will .
swedes .
i’m not saying whether he was good or not .
but when the colonel became a general officer again , as he had once been and thought in terms that
frazer’s wheeled chair .
“it’s captain willie , ” the nigger said .
“please open the wine , mademoiselle .
the horns were as long , but narrower , but he was as beautiful , and he lay on his
it was a hot day , so i slit them all and shucked out the insides , gills and all
wind had made of her hair .
the two harry morgan stories , “one trip across” (cosmopolitan , may _num_ ) and “the tradesman’s return” (esquire ,
" the train is coming , sir , " he said in french .
" i ' m not worried about how i ' ll stand it .
the ones you read were when i wasn’t confident at all .
, ' i said .
" we were standing under the arcade at the door of the hotel .
every day is a new day .
“ah ha , ” the third porter said .
fear in the dark .
beaten me .
” “i was stinking in every attack , ” nick said .
we must all be up early .
bank in the sun and he named her off .
” asked macomber , raising his rifle .
i turned off the gas in the dining-room , kicked off my slippers sitting on the bed , and got
scotch whisky and real gordon ' s gin , the cutlery store , an antique dealer ' s with some
give a credit .
he sat forward in the chair and looked out of the window .
i felt hollow as always .
i didn’t mean i didn’t love you .
" " she was with you .
" brett pulled the felt hat down far over one eye and smiled out from under it .
kelly .
' ' how much alike are we ?
" do i have to let her put her arm around my neck ?
the day , now , i lay in the shade with a breeze in the trees and read with no
the small ones thin out and stop before the big ones come .
the grinding stopped , and in the new quiet there was a great churning bubbling in the radiator .
" " twice in the abdomen .
but it just blew straight up .
this stuff is useless .
and one excellent banderillero .
he was , too , but by ten o’clock he knew the day would be as bad or worse than
“i just asked you , ” manuel said .
" before lunch , " jack says .
' we ' re here for the night only .
the offensive and you will see what it will do .
a lot of people want to slap jack on the back .
he pointed , and i could see it was the place .
" her eyes looked flat again .
love to all the chaps .
he even suggested that himself in his letter .
" " ich spreche deutsch , " she said , and stroked guy ' s hair .
“i love it .
“do you know what a bugger is ?
' to-night .
instead of being there naked , i was armoured .
" i feel badly enough about it as it is .
he is the sort of person they want as a member .
” “you better run along , comrade , ” al said .
” “i know all about comrade henry , ” the little man said .
_] _ _num_ d soldier_--hey , what you put in that , camel chips ?
” “our mother will get tired of feeding them .
c’est comme les churches .
i took off my shoes and lay down on the bed .
we found some blood on the grass stems where i had first hit him , then lost it , then
” “you better go back to town and stay there .
to do it if you don ' t want to .
“he has a little place too , ” indicating the small , dark one .
“but we’ve got proof on this .
” the other soldiers were all listening now .
“disarm the mines and pick up everything and we will go back to the farmhouse and clean up .
” “you should have said something about it .
” “thank you very much , ” said the doctor waving a forceps in the air .
odgar and kate were talking together up on the dock .
bull who no longer had any problems of any kind and was being dragged out of the ring by four
' richard , ' the girl said .
dark water .
" come on and fight , " jack says to walcott .
” walcott doesn’t say anything .
i was beginning to feel strong again after the dysentery and it was a pleasure to walk in the easy
' ' don ' t be ornamental , ' she said .
remember your good friends and remember your deads .
' ' i don ' t know but it ' s plenty strong .
big cars out from charlevoix , rich slobs riding behind their chauffeurs , came up and passed , hogging the
you know , in our army once , a general officer through chicanery obtained the plan of the manoeuvre .
get her away and get her away as soon as i can without hurting her .
seems like in milan everybody is going somewhere and all the trams run somewhere and there ain’t any sort of
" it was part of his system of authority .
the biggest part of her’s under the sand now but they live inside of her ; the biggest kind of
going to cry .
it was always hard for me to look at him but i was looking at him carefully because i knew
that must be the ghee , he thought .
have happened and asked her if they had happened .
" " lie quiet .
“can’t you see everyone is helping me now ?
but it isn’t right .
he shut his eyes in the sun .
“i’d forgotten the lion !
they went by five minutes ago .
up to the curb under the arc-light .
he turned , and advancing his right foot slightly , made the second pass , gained a little terrain on
maybe he was all bone .
' literary life must be awfully jolly .
look , m ' cola !
it was always pleasant crossing bridges in paris .
" i got to go over there , " manuel said , and started on a run for the other
finally karl came out of his tent .
it is not good for the mind .
" that ' s all right , " zurito said .
we went on into spezia .
' it ' s always too loose .
” guy asked , “you or her ?
" brett smiled at him .
" " that ' s too bad you go away .
it was sunday and the road , rising and falling , but always dropping away from the altitude of the
" i wish i could go .
they had brett seated on a wine-cask .
' don ' t shoot towards the boat .
“they’re all happy now , ” he said .
still they were crazy for it .
” “he didn’t load up with all that stuff to go south .
very short horns .
what did he call it ?
with some hangers .
the lady who had him , her name was frances , found toward the end of the second year that
" " it ' s rotten luck .
" you don ' t need any economic interest .
everything he did i could do better .
but when you said it about unpopular guest it was unmade .
very quiet and healthy .
you do not have the face of an inquisitor , my colonel , and i know about the order ,
" mike said languidly .
it was dark in the wine-shop and full of men singing , hard-voiced singing .
do you worry about anything ?
“somebody sent them .
” “very hollow .
with no surf they could hear the engine .
“no hard feelings now , are there ?
afternoon in our time a farewell to arms men without women the sun also rises the torrents of spring the
he flopped there , putting his hands over his head , and the chauffeur shot at him with the shotgun
" to-night at seven o ' clock they bring in the villar bulls , and to-morrow come the miuras .
truly .
" " in the night , " said madame , " toutes les femmes dort dans le truck .
” looking ahead at the road he had driven so many times in his life , seeing it stretch ahead
it was a great mistake .
" " somebody shot him in the back , i tell you , " the interpreter said .
we’re partners .
they can make you feel .
said boyle .
“he’s in my charge .
" what ' s the matter with the old one ?
pretty well through , too .
' ' keep on trying , daughter , ' the colonel said .
' he knew how boring any man ' s war is to any other man , and he stopped talking
” “i know they do .
“the dirty little bugger , ” nick said and smacked the squirrel’s head against the tree .
" " i ' ll festa them , " bill said , " what the hell are they doing at
“i guess you have the right to be sleepy .
the small shrimps that were in it fell onto the planking of the skiff .
belmonte ' s great attraction is working close to the bull .
" girls never got a man anywhere .
i’ll make life so miserable for you—” “yes , ” said captain willie .
rinaldi , big backed , his equipment sprawling , lay face downward against the wall .
” “that’s one i’m pretty sure i’ve seen in the movies or read somewhere .
he had never seen so big a trout .
where it hurts is in the head , the legs and the feet .
“if you want anything to read .
now , being in africa , i was hungry for more of it , the changes of the seasons ,
he climbed the bank and cut up into the woods , toward the high ground .
barnes has seen a lot .
it was still early in the morning and the train was on the other side of a tamarack swamp .
" " well , well , " he said .
' look what we have , ' i called to him .
" how did the paseo go ?
” “wanted to , ” he said .
_ ' as we saw the camp fire in the dark ahead of us , coming in that night ,
' ' rhino , ' he said .
certainly not sinclair lewis .
the first time he missed .
a porter came in and said the simplon-orient express was an hour late at saint-maurice .
' ' how old are you , my colonel , if it is not too indiscreet to ask ?
nick had swung on to the freight train when it slowed down for the yards outside of walton junction .
they understood quite clearly .
it had taken two men to bring the gondola up the grand canal from the market .
” “encore un coup manqué , ” said onie and everybody felt better but not too good .
“want a smoke ?
” “with water ?
it was just as white as a lye barrel and coming from eastern harbor to sou’west key you couldn’t recognize
packard was opening a packing box with a crowbar .
jack took off his shirt and collar and put on a jersey and a sweater , so he wouldn '
and we may have to be away for years .
she cuddled against me and i put my arm around her .
fuentes ran across the quarter of a circle as the bull charged and , as he passed running backward ,
" " that awful lust .
we’re here .
” “i’m a good man , harry .
" i took her away , of course .
he knew how big a man he was .
" brett wants to go , " i said to the count .
” “how was vicente killed ?
” “he must have jumped up on him from behind , ” my father said .
they really did .
" " he said it would make me more womanly .
but with the tops of his cheeks flushed by the fever , staring still , as he had stared ,
" " i seen him last sunday didn ' t i ?
“no , ” marione said .
the tide was in and there was a good breeze and a surf on the beach .
" to-morrow .
“he’s in his room and he won’t go out .
when it tired him he looked at manuel .
“but i know you wouldn’t do such a thing , captain .
' ' wild , ' she said .
tell him to rejoin us later .
“are you going out , dear ?
i was hungry and i looked out of the window at the fall country and watched the porter asleep .
” then afterwards they sat , the three of them , listening for a black squirrel that was in the
" i don ' t know , " his father said .
he could walk out of it not from cowardice , but simply from seeing too clearly ; knowing suddenly that
his hands are as smooth and not a callous on them .
i ' m not dead at all .
, to the left and to the right , where the streams flowed out into the lake and made a
' ' they bully us , ' pop said .
ahead there was the local guide with a spear , then droopy with my heavy gun and a water bottle
from the far corner of the seat margaret macomber looked at the two of them .
_ ' the rolling-eyed skinner picked p .
he looked around at us apologetically .
“i’ll come around for you about a quarter to seven and we’ll go and eat .
" " i ' ll cash you a check , " bill said .
” “what do you mean , kids , ” the down-state man said .
never fought .
the top .
or else they read the critics .
” and looking where he pointed , while the car jumped forward and wilson spoke in rapid swahili to the
" it is what a man must do .
" one of the girls looked at him down the table , and he grinned and turned red .
you’re not going to serve them for the dinners ?
“what do you think i’m going to do ?
" " i ' ll remember it , " i said .
“did you see him shot ?
just don ' t watch when it ' s bad .
" you all laugh but there ' s nothing funny .
holes and driving around the mud castles ants had built .
once in a while i’d take a drink out of the bottle he’d brought on board .
instead of the sweet clean pull of the springfield with the smooth , unhesitant release at the end , this
' he ' s getting much too easy now , ' pop said .
bigger than anything i’ve ever seen .
earth .
“he can not hear , ” the major said .
” “let’s think something out good , ” she said .
do with them , and after a while they went away .
they flew when they hopped .
be happy , my colonel and be happy , my lady .
" " i am sure she would permit it when cayetano is able to hear it .
why did he sit there ?
he wasn ' t strong any more .
' ' there has been nothing since we were together last .
they walked uphill and the moon came through the trees and showed nick with the very big pack and his
' campi , ' m ' cola said firmly and they all nodded .
" i love to look at the english .
, talky time .
' secco and really cold .
in the afternoon_ , which sold , or rather was offered for sale , at $ _num_ .
it was another of his mistakes and there was nothing to do now except gamble .
i’ve been destroyed two or three times already .
” “fix yourself on this , ” said the smallest one .
" the man asked .
" they couldn ' t .
third of the palings .
i don’t like to not be hospitable , but it might disturb him back again to see you .
big sporting evening .
" " i never eat at the hotel .
there must be something i can do .
so early ?
" " i believe he is .
the two tactical air-forces had ; ours and the r .
' ' both of us .
very attractively depicted and had nothing in common with actual rape in which the woman ' s skirts are pulled
there were cinders in the plush of our seat in the train and my father brushed the seat with a
so they would not worry .
“or with a very furry fedora .
” “just pump the lever and shoot it .
use their machine at a time when people were not using their radios .
well we mustn’t waste money on the telephone .
she liked the way he felt about being a hotel-keeper .
it was a country covered in manigua thicket and in the tall flamboyante trees that grew along the watercourse that
" ' did you do that many times ?
from the top of one rise we saw two kongoni showing yellow on a hillside about a mile away and
let ' s do it again , please , now i am in the lee .
him except perhaps for his dexterity in killing the two birds .
not me you .
' i proceed to reveal , ' the colonel said .
" i ' ve been cleaning out the basement , dear , " my mother said from the porch .
because i don’t care about me .
" that ' s no good , " madame fontan said .
no one of his other wounds had ever done to him what the first big one did .
the train it does not make you happy ; it only makes you want the woods where you live .
bright boy is nice .
you must see how it was .
“wonderful .
it had gone on and changed , thickening here , losing its lines , bloating a little there , but
" " people don ' t die with a fever of one hundred and two .
it is very dangerous .
” “that’s splendid .
how would you like to sit on the can as you have sat almost every morning of your damned life
and even that ' s not true .
by the weather .
of us how easy the operation that later took the name of hurtgen forest would be .
so on some nights i would try to remember all the animals in the world by name and then the
i was thinking to myself that this johnson had fished fifteen days , finally he hooks into a fish a
the devil had him in an iron cage , built like an iron lung or an iron maiden , and
bring butstein if she wants to come .
he ' s still sleeping .
hesitated , then went down on his knees , and romero ' s older brother leaned forward behind him and
they’d stop the trains right outside of tallahassee and round up the men and march them off to jail and
" " all right , " bill said .
the veritable flowers of the pyrenees .
" mais il est trop jeune .
” “listen , ” george said to nick .
' ' i kill nothing , you understand , ' kandisky told us .
" let ' s get out .
after we had stepped out into the bushes to let a big car go by jack said , “to hell
" " i find it dirty .
” “oui .
" " it goes too fast .
“no sir , ” said the chef .
” “did you bring a blanket for you ?
but it is rougher where you are going until you make the shore .
there was a long tug .
' but he ' s a good lad .
it’s just as though it’s automatic .
there was a roof and a cement floor and the poles that held the roof up , and the wind
” “let’s keep it like that for a while .
' please , ' the girl said .
nickie , you’re a good boy no matter what anybody says .
' piga !
“just in the gym .
" be calm and strong , old man , " he said .
" what you going to do with us afterward ?
but that means nothing because i cannot read other naturalists unless they are being extremely accurate and not literary .
already in place and made a long pen ; the crowd would come running down with the bulls behind them
what you want to lie to me for ?
mister dante thought so .
you don’t have to say it .
but you can sleep in the back of the place .
" here comes brett , " bill said .
don’t you remember me , splayzey ?
” “is a good drink all right .
' ' it is to be expected .
“what do they call it ?
it is a feeling that can come from any sort of game or fish that is ordinarily rare and that
they drank .
' ' i think we should stop the jokes now and get to the breakfast .
he never dreamed about the front now any more but what frightened him so that he could not get rid
st .
i went to the head of the stairs with them .
he had never received his sausage .
they saw much farther and much quicker than the human eye sees and they were the great gift his father
you go back to those trees .
” “i’m sorry about the game .
for m ' cola to pour water into it from the canteen , drinking this , the first one of
where the other ear should have been there was a stump .
it has every right to and the rest of it .
this dead , head-severed dream rhino , and instead we all spoke like people who were about to become seasick
able to do some work while we had the holiday together .
' ' i don ' t .
i don ' t get any fun out of asking that spik questions .
in the other league , between brooklyn and philadelphia i must take brooklyn .
” “i guess he wanted to make it uncomfortable so they would take the handcuffs off .
' ' do you know what it ' s like ?
” asked the thin one .
" " they were excellent .
way being to turn and take them over your shoulder as they go , before they set their wings and
the norte station in madrid is the end of the line .
up into another tree-scattered meadow , and through it , and into a long field with piled up boulders at
" a telegram for you , sir .
“thank you , ” he said .
” “i am a good soldier .
any such thoughts as mungo park about those formed in his own image .
" please do not say such things .
" tell him how wrong he is , " tom turned to me .
" darling !
” “she was in the woods with frank washburn .
“that’s the first proverb you run up against when you lead an active life .
the covered seats of the bull-ring had been crowded with people sitting out of the rain watching the concourse of
” san siro was the swellest course i’d ever seen but the old man said it was a dog’s life
' it would not .
he kept moving away as we came on , but slowly .
the road came out of the orchard on to the top of the hill .
" fish , " he said softly , aloud , " i ' ll stay with you until i am
" " let ' s enjoy a little more of this , " brett pushed her glass forward .
and until i direct you otherwise , don ' t speak to me until you are spoken to .
but it was not .
" et aussi , il y a trop de polack .
i ' d like to see the coast .
it was at this point that he suggested that mr .
" " he wanted to fish .
' ' you ' d have killed him with the springfield , ' pop said .
typed in the upper left-hand corner , nor my international postage coupons that you enclosed for them to send the
" i ' ll see you around , " i said .
nick and his father got in the stern of the boat and the indians shoved it off and one of
“why the hell don’t you get another cook ?
don ' t make any mistake about that .
it would be nice if she were warm enough .
launches are moored .
we must stop terrorism .
he was evidently holding tight onto himself about something .
the difference would be that when his speed of foot would be gone he would always be frightened where now
i had the wind up when we came in that morning .
" " i was very bad , " he said .
“what’s this for ?
as you watched the man in front sank onto his knees and then sat down .
" " thank you .
" " twelve years old if i see you are careful .
observer had cried like a child .
eddie gilby lay on the ground with all his chest shot away .
he had some reasons to delay it .
the commercial bull-fighters stayed once , perhaps , and then did not come back .
i reached up and took the other bottle and got the corkscrew and drew the cork .
' ' you cannot know how nice it is .
' he added to himself , not wishing to confuse jackson , nor be difficult , as he had been
' ' wonderful guy , ' i said .
, break them or run out of cloth or paper to wipe them clean .
and we’re stopped at the cerro de aguilar since yesterday morning .
' ' but it will be horrible .
“i know the one , ” nick adams said .
horses .
this is the sort of thing i always wondered about .
please , nickie .
they had been to the morning show at the bull-ring .
" the bus started .
" it is the tune of the real revolution .
no , that must be immorality .
” “i thought they were going to have chaves and hernandez , ” the waiter said .
" don ' t jump , fish , " he said .
" " come out after supper ?
into the water left in the kettle he put several things he unwrapped from a handkerchief .
' ' please be good and kind .
but they are not important .
he had found the elephant at night and followed him to see that he had both of his tusks and
' ' no , ' said andrea .
and there in the café as he passed was that american poet with a pile of saucers in front of
” “a rummy fake santa claus , ” said the bald man .
let ' s go after lunch .
he reached under the bed for a bottle and drank .
never believe it to see me now , " mike said .
then , in the dark on the bed , holding himself carefully , his eyes closed , their lips against
you bet she knows .
” “nickie , wouldn’t it be nice if there wasn’t anyone after us and we were just here for fun
" what a lousy telegram !
" " yes , sir ?
krebs and the corporal look too big for their uniforms .
it’s none of my business .
" " yes , " john says .
or if i ' d wiped out the bore to get the oil out she would not have thrown high
“and if i don’t ?
” “sit down , jerry , ” jack said .
' the _gran maestro_ held up two fingers as a man might do giving odds where he had credit ,
he swung up on the pole and it bent almost double in his hand .
” “i’m not being funny .
“to hell with that stuff , ” hogan said .
“i dropped him in about seven hundred fathoms , ” i said .
“we’re going to dump this liquor now .
nick ' s own education in those earlier matters had been acquired in the hemlock woods behind the indian camp
“beer , ” i said , and before he drew the beer he uncovered both the bowls .
” after a while he said to me , “you don’t have to stay in here with me , papa
boys were running toward him from all parts of the arena , making a little circle around him .
those kids are good .
i really ought .
" " we will bring beer .
my head felt cracked open and i lay in the skiff and rested and then i sculled back .
even if we were two and swamped her to load him and bailed her out , this skiff would never
“none of these guys are going to send you away , though .
he had nothing to do now until the next third .
the bull-ring and across the field and under the trees at the edge of the cliff and looked down at
but he looked pretty good to me in there today .
” “with me it’s different .
' ' _hija , figlia_ , daughter .
” “i don’t know anything about her that i could write .
” he looked out the door .
” “i’ll go in , ” the girl said .
he was still listening .
until only his metallic eyes showed , and they were red-rimmed and sore , sat thinking .
he was going in by a very narrow street and he was going to not keep track of the number
' ' oh , i ' m sure i will .
he had a nice , boyish sort of cheerfulness that had never been trained out of him , and i
“well , you got an easy one , stevie .
” “i was saving it .
there will be others .
" i am always in love .
, the lamplight coming from the window , where inside , in the smoky , new-wine smelling warmth , they
and join organizations that do their thinking for them .
it was bright and the people were all out for sunday .
the reporters ' tables and out down the aisle .
' it ' s split there and it still cracks open .
" but i felt sorry for him .
' ' you fought ?
“i’ll cut your heart out .
grass , said , “who are you that you think you are so much better than we are ?
' have a beer , colonel , ' he said to me .
nick reached up and took an apple from one of the duchess trees .
a newer england that they were making .
” “you might go good .
" he asked the porters .
“if that flit king has any friends here this can be very bad .
” “good , ” he said .
later he had seen the things that he could never think of and later still he had seen much worse
droopy had no skinning knife and i had only a penknife to stick him with .
" we thought you would come last night , " madame fontan said .
you don’t write her .
he ' s all lead , manuel thought .
" he had a hard , jewish , stubborn streak .
the trunk of a tree .
en france il y a seulement les catholiques et les protestants--et très peu de protestants .
a girl came and took our order and another girl stood in the doorway .
“the sun warms it a little , ” nick said .
” “i might just lie down , ” nick said .
“can’t you see he’s helping me now ?
” “oh , don’t be silly .
we ' ve got ten days .
tablets into his left hand .
i’m even sleepy myself .
” he lay alongside of her , his right foot touching her left , his leg touching hers and he
' now you must sleep .
" you ' ll be all right .
” “dead .
be indecorous if the race is to be carried on since the position prescribed for procreation is indecorous , highly
" " mr .
“it doesn’t make any difference whose fault it was , ” bill said .
“really no choice though .
cold with pan-yan pickles , and the red wine we bought at babati , sitting by the road waiting for
to her head , and he was not lecturing ; he was confessing .
he had been a dock worker before he got a job as a stool pigeon for the havana police and
kids and bums .
“while the sergeant hit him in the face with the handcuff on his right hand he picked up a steel-bladed
“he’s a good bull , ” manuel said .
“you partook ?
" i wouldn ' t have believed it .
" " i always like a good meal , " said the count .
in the first place , you had to be in love with a woman to have a basis of friendship
i wondered if it would make a writer of him , give him the necessary shock to cut the over-flow
he was thinking , thinking if it was possible to be with somebody underwater , he could hold his breath
” “and walpole , ” nick interposed .
romero looked up smiling .
so now , going along the sandy track of the road in the car , the lights picking out the
” “i’ve got a big greek from chicago that will go anywhere .
' ' i would like that small negro with the ebony face and the turban made of chip diamonds with
" i ' ll lash the two oars together across the stern and that will slow him in the night
inside , against the bar and at tables , were most of the crowd who a been at the dance
told him i knew too many people everywhere .
“there’s nothing to worry about .
" so long , kid !
” “you are beside yourself .
' ' the hell with lunch .
” “on dit que schmidt est catholique , ” fontan said .
february _num_ ) , which draw from this period , were ultimately incorporated into the novel to have and have
a good client they knew that if he became too drunk he would leave without paying , so they kept
' ' how many were you in the family ?
he said there were two big bulls in a herd of a dozen or more .
" " only feebly , " said johnson .
" what ' s the matter with you ?
" brett stood up .
" " he sent two beers .
" they ' ve got bananas for horns , " the critic said .
men come of age before and it always moved him .
it is a well built , pleasant boat .
it ' s a wonderful monument .
they were all mirrored inside and she was combing her hair .
' chapter xliv they had dropped the barone off at a villa with great gates , a gravelled drive and
the fire glinted on the reels .
” he was trying to swagger it off .
' what did she write ?
just biggest cow .
“i need another drink very badly .
the biarritz crowd did not like it they thought romero was afraid , and that was why he gave that
" listen , hogan .
' ' what about the others ?
” “you think he’ll be the president ?
" fontan said to her .
" pinin looked at the floor .
" to the crow reservation .
woods .
” his wife was silent .
you’ll be glad to see me yet .
girl told him .
” asked the little man very brightly .
it was clear enough so they could see the dark point , and beyond were the high hills of the
" " the blood must stiffen them , " bill said .
moving_ pictures .
shut up and fuck off .
" hello , jake , " he said very slowly .
" " i read about it in the papers , " retana said .
the frenchman had come walking out of the attack with great dignity and i understood him as a man .
“who are you ?
” “let’s get out then .
" stop at the nearest bistro , " i said .
outside it was good and dark .
” “well then , as wilson said , kill him and stop his roaring .
mattresses filled with beech leaves , the time the deserter came with his feet bloody in the snow .
” “what a shame .
been shelled , but few travellers would take a good full breath of that early summer air and have any
” “how do you know it was nothing ?
he was settled .
bayonne is a nice town .
“that’s good .
“those are retana’s boys .
' ' i told you i made mistakes , ' the colonel said .
“but i don’t get my political views there .
back you could put your fist in , if it were a small fist and you wanted to put it
went into the woods on the wide clay and shale road , cool under the trees , and broadened for
nick adams .
" she said , " let ' s not talk about it .
he reached into his pocket and found a pad and pencil .
just let me enjoy my triumph .
at the village we stopped in the road in the dark , and i paid the runner the amount it
settled back in the slow , smoothly rolling fiacre we moved up the avenue de l ' opéra , passed
you should have been an indian , he thought .
they formed up for the paseo as soon as the bull had gone through .
' ' and you ' re a good tracker , and a hell of a fine bird shot , too
and all the stories that he meant to write .
god rest you merry , gentlemen in those days the distances were all very different , the dirt blew off
” “he loves to fish , ” captain willie yelled , his voice almost breaking .
" say , " he called up against the noise of the dam .
“none of your damn business , ” al said .
eating-house .
the branches of the mango trees shook and snapped in the wind and its heat burned the mango flowers until
" " on wine .
i had thought of the rain only as something that made tracking easy .
we were all very impressed by these masai .
not beautiful , but that gave you all love , glory and delight and sadness ; and of the way
couldn ' t we just live together ?
' lion , lion , rhino , buffalo , kudu , kudu .
instead , i walked down the street and had a beer at the bar at the next bal .
harris would not let us pay .
a book .
“see you tomorrow night at chicote’s .
san sebastian .
the paint was peeling .
how they wish each other luck !
“you know , ” he says , “you ain’t got any idea how i miss the wife .
the doctor said : " that will all pass .
' yes , ' said m ' cola .
that ' s from shakespeare , he told the portrait .
" but that afternoon there were telegrams to send , the car to be gone over , --a tire had
down to the gap , walking downhill with that odd bent-kneed way of the two-legged animal coming down a steep
" they lost today , " the boy told him .
he’s more down to earth than the majority of those people .
” “i wouldn’t , ” i said .
did you ever read _king lear_ , daughter ?
any time you show me one that doesn ' t want to get down off the cross when the time
" the porter brought a truck and piled on the baggage , and my wife said good-by and i said
do you all go down ?
and on the others .
“look at that , ” he said .
" " not like this , though , " hogan said .
“i can’t drive you home because i only live just down the road .
i have my memories .
range of them without being seen .
they had a sound basis of union .
, seemed to curve much higher and farther back .
' ' poor man .
" good night , " i said .
” “and you really want to ?
" " just those i said .
the gunner asked him outside and they fought in the street on the cobbles in the dark .
we gave it up .
i could shut my eyes without getting the wheeling sensation .
as soon as the music stopped another one of them asked her to dance .
will you drink a glass of marc with me ?
until that clear day in the winter when i went back to have that small wound dressed , and saw
you cannot eat a password .
but you are not alone , because if you have ever really loved her happy and untragic , she loves
" " those are funny names for indians .
“watch yourself , jimmy , ” i heard solly freedman yell to him .
“off and on , ” i said .
” “terrible .
really .
i must have because he quit firing too .
' i suppose so .
“you don’t have to talk silly , ” marjorie said .
so he just buried her for five years .
he looked down at the swirl of water below each leg and tipped up the bottle to get a grasshopper
the country was so much like aragon that i could not believe that we were not in spain until ,
or to get who did you say it was to paint frescoes ?
i left some money for the roman and one of the kudu hides with the boy .
but it is also known who my family are and that i am a good girl .
the corridor was now not simply beautiful , but exciting , and putting the key into the lock was not
' oh , you , ' he said .
he opened his eyes and looked at me .
to the dining-room , the _gran maestro_ came out of the bar .
" i ' m sorry you feel rotten .
what their politics were , or whether he had a little money , or she had a little money ,
now , beating up the canal , against the cold wind off the mountains , and with the houses as
“how do i know this ?
“you’ve got to sock him .
' ' the hell with them , ' the colonel said .
” the man answered .
" " you ' re much braver in an attack than i am .
” “he’s really very nice .
take us over to that boat .
that’s a hell of a note .
“trust me .
were feeding steadily all down the stream .
the meat on the bench beside me and drank a gin and tonic water .
" lost money .
both legs stuck out awkwardly .
the way to hunt is for as long as you live against as long as there is such and such
of course that’s what i should remember about this child , exactly as you should remember the stalling speed of
” “bananas are all right , ” guy said .
there were many people walking to go and see the bulls , and carriages drove down the hill and across
" have you been in paris long ?
the bombardment .
to have my picture taken .
his horns were as solid as wood and they were as sharply pointed as the quill of a porcupine .
you cannot have the one without the other .
we’ll leave the mannlicher in the car with the memsahib .
i’m going to really bathe though .
fuentes walked forward .
nothing was ever lost .
behind them marched all the members of the dancing and drinking societies of pamplona , estella , tafalla , and
we might as well sit down .
“sit down , littless , and take a rest , ” he said .
never ever never .
were the great giants , cigar-store indians , thirty feet high , moors , a king and queen , whirling
you’re disgustingly immoral .
“returning to the razor , ” george said .
i feel like hell .
' ' i love it , ' i said .
underfoot the ground was good walking .
' let ' s eat , ' said p .
i never realized a small church could look like a p _num_ .
they were both covered with oilcloth .
' i ' m still paying for it .
the sword at the spot high up between the bull ' s shoulders .
” “i don’t know , ” the girl said .
" " of course , darling .
through thinking about his father .
her lightness prolongs both our suffering but it is my safety since he has great speed that he has never
as always , we were short of artillery .
you could always pick them up there on the black .
“are you a doctor ?
damned shame , too .
” “if i’d begot you at fourteen .
" i ' ll go get a couple .
” “an hour is the same .
we had supper .
yours isn’t .
, who leaned over and placed it in the bottom of the big barrel .
' that ' s plenty , ' i said , and waved the old man back and we started out
” “would you care to charter it to me ?
cape .
” “what do you think i want to do , get sick ?
' you mean a pound , ' said the leading guide .
" i ' ve got to file that line he got off this morning .
” “stevie sent you his best , ” i said to the houseboy .
' they hit them one , two , three , four , five .
“that’s a swell log , ” nick said .
he was sweating .
“and i can fly this old elevator .
pretty terrible .
mike helped me up .
" " i wish he would go home .
if that ' s the way you look at it .
' ' off there to the left .
it was funny watching him and it kept me from thinking about it myself .
instead of e .
it was not too far to get the pine studded hillside , the lake and the outline of the stone
" can you see him doing it ?
easy again , because the grass brushed against his belly and while you could not see tracks clearly without stooping
let us accept on faith and simply say--i want you to join with me in saying--what shall we say ,
he jumped and kamau snickered .
" " tell me where brett is .
the log .
back and the woods off on the other side of the house and down again at the woodshed roof and
nick crawled out under the mosquito netting stretched across the mouth of the tent , to look at the morning
“come on , help me with this elevator .
“franz , come over here .
will you take something ?
' i drank the tea and spat the leaves into the fire .
when you can ' t overhear it ' s no good .
while a man who went with prostitutes would contract hideous venereal diseases and that the thing to do was to
" american men are the only men in the world to marry .
his father waited for him to come up and said very gently , “he rested here .
what i would like to give her is security , which does not exist any more ; all my love
then he lay down on the bed .
and i don’t know how he can do it .
in the states .
could not see the right tusk .
' ' your bad , ' the girl said .
i never wanted to go .
all for morning fun .
" the boy did not know whether yesterday ' s paper was a fiction too .
he was an old man and very tall .
“if it keeps up i guess i ought to go down , ” al said listening .
the final stuff with the sword was all he worried over .
" " good-night , jack , " i said .
“he was the best guitar player ever in this town .
some lived in it and never felt it but he knew it all was nada y pues nada y nada
you ' ve got a room here , or you should have and you can sign for chow .
then there were three more of them that came out of the forest , dark in the shadow , and
“we’ll find him down or anchored—i hope the hell , ” he added .
“it’s our old drink for out here , ” she said .
yet employed .
" funny , isn ' t it ?
already everyone but m ' cola was losing faith in the bull .
i shot in anger .
i undressed and put my clothes in the hammock and put on pajamas and got into bed .
we found the big leather wine-bottle leaning against the wall in my room , took it and the field-glasses ,
our work well in the morning , and twice during the early part of the attack we should have been
" yes , " said johnson , " just for a little walk .
the martin johnsons lighted it on so many silver screens where they were pursuing old simba the lion , the
wasn’t it marvellous , margot ?
' ' we ' re too tired .
' her head was on his chest now , and the colonel said , ' why did you not want
" i ' ll not tell that story .
i stood up .
" go on back to the kitchen , nigger .
they’re bigger than european patridges .
, being behind rock , shielding the glasses with my hat so they would not reflect the sun , m
” “could we try it ?
well , i dislike it too .
” “i’m sure he would have liked to meet you but he died last year .
needed it .
' open the windows .
he wants more artillery but there isn ' t any more artillery .
joke people and you make enemies .
barnes .
he picked up a piece and put it in his mouth and chewed it slowly .
johnson , ” eddy said .
" " i had a wonderful time .
naturally , since it had been a palace , there were no rooms without excellent views , except those which
“beer .
i went in to lunch .
who he liked was mama .
" " elle ne comprend pas que vous êtes écrivain , " fontan said .
' s mannlicher slung over his shoulder .
i think about him and think about him and i can ' t see him .
or a gang of black and tans , guns ready and cocked , not knowing whether he was stunned or
" well , " i said , " they drowned shelley somewhere along here .
i would accuse you to them of having betrayed me .
" and leaning back , swung the cape forward .
i was sure i’d killed the pilot .
” jack sat down on the porch by me .
fast , just under the surface with his high dorsal fin knifing through the water without wavering .
the old man was thin and gaunt with deep wrinkles in the back of his neck .
nick caught three of them with his hands and cut their heads off and skinned them while marjorie chased with
" i asked the innkeeper .
i want to be a saint .
” “bring any money back and you’ll get your share .
” “we can have a party in my room , ” manolita said .
important part of the ethics that you should never seem to be working .
some day i ' m not going to be working for an agency .
“come on , get dressed , stut , ” he said .
“jimmy , ” he said , “are you awake ?
when they’re all on board he’s going to give me some more money .
” manuel suggested .
well as necessary , to his position and the colonel extended his own hand , which had been shot through
“just coming out of the mcalester hotel , ” a flyer said .
, when the nigger took the shotgun that was lying against the wheel of the car by the chauffeur and
we had an old ford coupé .
" she shook her head .
maybe they haven’t made their fight yet .
traps we had set up .
with jaws that crack the bones the lion leaves , belly dragging , loping away on the brown plain ,
a flying fish is excellent to eat raw and i would not have to cut him up .
himself a glass into the glass which was much better than any hotel should use which was faced with breakage
" he can ' t be away from you .
” “it was excellent .
and as he raised the muleta in both hands the bull charged , tail up .
” he asked , keeping his face out of the way .
what parts of the earth he would like to be a part of .
" you ' re pretty near as old as i am , " zurito said .
they only deal to you once and then you pick them up and play them .
as kamau came back from carrying a load to the car i told him to bring the camera and then
' that ' s goofy wanderobo and that lousy old fake .
he was so big it was like lashing a much bigger skiff alongside .
it was probably not like that and was like a dream and he did not remember its name nor where
” “if you hadn’t left your own people , your goddamned old westbury , saratoga , palm beach people to
slow trailing and the regular halts his father made each hour on the hour .
the street to the concha .
' no , i ' ll finish this .
there was nothing to do now but pull the bell cord , or enter with the key .
the waitress came over to mr .
" she is pleased because you take bananas .
the next day they called on his mother and the next day they sailed for europe .
he should be back .
" " we ' ll have to arrange it .
the whiskeys were twelve francs apiece .
drawing the blood off from a wound in a vein of the neck made by shooting an arrow at close
it should not cramp on me again unless it gets too cold in the night .
it’s not like claw wounds .
_num_ st soldier—aw , hell , you don’t know anything about it .
french forest on a day in winter after rain .
express tomorrow love jake .
behind him .
i went down and saw that o’brien boy at police headquarters and told him that he’s got to send some
" my father thinks he was the greatest .
michael will be there .
somebody was teaching bill a song .
' ' do they have cattle there ?
“nothing , ” i said .
" how is it ?
he doesn ' t mind .
' good god , ' i thought .
" " listen , " doc fischer said .
we found her .
“i’m going to take a little sleep , ” he said to the adjutant .
" asked brett .
” “it is one of the most heinous of crimes , ” his father answered .
" " to travel is necessary during the light of day .
the light came through the doorway , and through the window where vegetables , fruit , steaks , and chops
' i see .
” he found some bottles of red wine that was drinkable and i sat around and checked the weapons and
fellow quit playing and came over to the bar .
" nick followed the woman up a flight of stairs and back to the end of a corridor .
that big yellow horse kzar came first .
the two waiters inside the café knew that the old man was a little drunk , and while he was
manuel turned as the bull came and raised the muleta so that it passed over the bull ' s horns
hopeful salesmanship , turned the car off to the left on to a track that went into the deep forest
is it a wound ?
well , we had played our string out with him .
in that ward there was a rodeo rider who had come out of the chutes on midnight on a hot
they were just germans on stolen bicycles .
tiny .
so i ' m a sucker for cripes , he thought , drinking the unwanted drink .
try to get one to pay .
" you ' re down fine , jack , " freedman says .
this will kill him , the old man thought .
' i don ' t want one , really , myself .
" nick would look across the lake and he could see the long wooded shore-line , the higher timber behind
it ' s no good .
i can leave a note for our mother and say i went with you and you’ll take good care of
" " the clock says twenty minutes past five , " the second man said .
no , " he said .
they were silent now .
he turned and the group broke apart and romero was taking him out with his cape .
you ' re a darling .
his hands were scraped and there were sand and cinders driven up under his nails .
' ' then the waiters , ' arnaldo said .
i slipped the safety catch and motioned droopy down .
_num_ d soldier—hell don’t i know it ?
” his wife whispered to him and joe laughed .
' ' what you want ?
' he brought the bottle , opened it , and i lifted it and drank half of it off to
“you’re a wonder , wemedge , ” odgar said .
' pop never drank before lunch except as a mistake and i knew he was trying to help me out
i couldn ' t do any good with the grains pole and i took off my clothes and stood and
“we have some apple strudel if you want it .
i shouldn’t have let the bird get hard .
” one of them who hadn’t spoken said .
“get out of here !
" sleeping , " the boy called .
started off , the wanderobo hanging to the side of the car .
the open water of the brown canal .
” “behave myself ?
perhaps i can get some marsala .
" what the hell do they know ?
" we have bananas .
“you’re too old , ” the picador said .
“they are around every camp .
" john asked me .
” “it’s terrible , ” the barman said , “the way i put it on .
' ' did you see the one in cuba ?
“yes , there is , ” she said .
we followed droopy back in and it got worse and worse , and i do not know about pop but
" " i ' d better go now .
he himself did not track .
“i did not know and he is my brother .
barnes introduced his fiancée as mademoiselle leblanc , and her name is actually hobin .
the skiff was sailing well considering the handicaps and he steered with the tiller under his arm .
" " i ' m not very hungry .
” “i get mixed up on it .
of the day .
" you kill your friends ?
“three marsalas , ” said the young gentleman to the girl behind the pastry counter .
he looked across the sand at zurito a little way out from the barrera , his horse rigid , waiting
the tanks had not come up in time and finally had refused to advance , and two of the battalions
fresh vegetables .
" she shouldn ' t have done it .
i stood beside him .
they’ve got anti-tanks in those three houses and an antitank battery by the church .
' ' thanks , ' karl said .
” somebody asked him .
' they embraced and the colonel felt the rough texture of andrea ' s handsome tweed coat that must have
“you look very well , sir , ” james said .
' bring .
” “oh , well , ” he said .
“but i can’t get no anchor up .
the bird was gone .
and tell them to fill her up and check the oil , mac , the way it is in american
the road was white and dusty , and the dust rose under the wheels and hung in the air behind
she was an extremely handsome and well-kept woman of the beauty and social position which had , five years before
forward to come to the surface under the skin of the chest .
“no more than with everything else .
“oh , nothing .
chew it well , he thought , and get all the juices .
morning and led away into the sloping , sparsely-wooded country on the far side .
t remember what the other person ' s said .
they were the best people in the world .
paper bag .
“yes i would .
" they ' re playing out on the coast and the difference in time will bring it late enough so
fontan and i sat at the table , and he poured the beer from the last bottle into our two
” manuel asked him .
course of parties by the musical selections they phoned for .
“i hit him twice .
" " did she get over it ?
i’ve never become one .
he noticed her eyelids were pale in the tanned face and how the long lashes lay , the sweetness of
' (blood , blood) , then the deep cut tracks off to the right , me reloading , we all
” “if you’d go away for a while and get a rest and a change from this .
' ' oh , go to hell .
” the capital of the world madrid is full of boys named paco , which is the diminutive of the
' ' i ' m right , ' the colonel said .
she went straight down the hall and into romero ' s room .
” “six to a battalion .
' she had a beautiful horn .
still i would rather be that beast down there in the darkness of the sea .
but you did not bring them , old man .
" french is more cultivated .
but i must insist that you will never gather a sufficient supply of these insects for a day’s fishing by
had gone to if they were out of town .
all these peasants are beasts .
” “you go away ?
hutchins certainly is a fine looking woman .
on the buffalo that he could see .
' ' forget them , daughter .
you are a bastard , he thought and looked down at the girl asleep on the seat by him .
finally he didn’t say anything any more but just sat there and looked at holbrook , and the two of
" besides , what happened to me is supposed to be funny .
the killing of the lion had been confused and unsatisfactory .
” the girl still said nothing and he looked at her face that he had thought of all the months
“you better pick up the full and the empty bottles , ” the down-state man said .
' ' i can be your daughter as well as everything else .
“what has happened has happened .
of sable and we were going to locate the other .
, ' piga !
" i ' m a different man , james , " he said to the barman .
do not think about sin , he thought .
nick noticed where the machine guns were posted and the signal rockets in their racks .
” “i am sorry , ” he said .
and there was a lady here to see you .
” “yes , all right , ” madame fontan said from the next room .
how are you , old lad ?
' please put this nonsense on my bill .
miami from under the mattress and cleaned and oiled it and filled it up and put it on my belt
for fun--you understand .
' and send them to the five corners of the world .
' ' not everybody .
to sell .
' he pointed to the logical place to defend .
of course they can ' t all know about it .
steve turned to smile at me and that black son of a bitch from hell jumped up and hit him
she looked for you to say good-bye .
a little desperately .
” “you did , like hell .
big trout , i tell you .
" how much are the rooms ?
toward us .
they made their way to the car where it stood under a single , wide-spreading tree and all climbed in
the male fish always let the female fish feed first and the hooked fish , the female , made a
m ' cola signalled with his hand not to shoot .
he fell with his mouth there .
" which is yours ?
' but i think we can walk away from it all right .
i was nearly always tired and often very sleepy .
yes , he said to himself , i have eyes and they have fairly fast perception still and once they
” “i don’t like it , ” said al .
i was the first boat out and i seen a spar floating and i knew there must be a wreck
' ' that ' s a damned dismal anecdote .
nearly all the girls lost interest in him .
was holding right on her course to get over the mountains .
“are there any russians in extremadura ?
' ' the scaloppine with marsala , and the cauliflower braised with butter .
” they were driving west now on the broad coral gables road through the flat heat-stricken outskirts of miami ,
as he could .
because you got in a jam .
with the muzzle of a sawed-off shotgun resting on the ledge .
bumming in all day , a couple of us kids , and my old man made me a sling shot
" get two rods , then , and bill won ' t have to buy one .
well , anyway , finally , after about three hours the police said we could go .
' ' i will go in .
” they were seated in the boat , nick in the stern , his father rowing .
there are various things .
” “i suppose that describes them , ” wilson said .
jack got a good hand coming down through the crowd .
yet heavy and vindictive stroke .
” “pretty quiet , ain’t it ?
“listen , do you know the captain paravicini ?
they came out and they were scared and they didn’t have any guns but there were twelve of them .
“take nick out of the shanty , george , ” the doctor said .
' ' i always use the wrong words , ' the girl said .
" beer .
now you could see all the way into them .
“you show two lights , one above the other , at the point .
“here she goes , ” manuel said to hernandez .
these men were aficionados .
yes , ecstasy is what you might have had and instead you draw sleep ' s other brother .
i was happy to hear it .
down onto it in the early dark and then the other lions came and he rested his chin on the
indecorous , and it occurred to me that perhaps that is what these people are , or were : the
” “did you ever read fortitude ?
puddles of water in the road were freezing at the edges .
" " up-stairs in his room .
they kissed for a long time , standing straight , and kissing true , in the cold of the open
' ' tell him to call back when the riff-raff goes and i ' ll come over .
my eyes are bored i guess as well as tired .
sometimes you ' re forced to , though .
he shut his eyes .
” “i haven’t time to argue , ” mr .
manuel looked back .
had been talking and the boy had said , “i don’t understand how anyone ever misses a pigeon .
it was a cold fall and the wind came down from the mountains .
you never saw so many birds .
fontan tried to take them by the arm and show them where they could be sick all right in the
“they were very nice stories .
the adjutant went on with his papers .
watching the skinning .
it felt nice riding high up and close under the trees .
" you ought to play the races , bright boy .
“look at that bunch of camels , ” the tall waiter went on .
" let ' s bet on something else .
he hunted there when he was young .
“you’ve seen the last of them .
henry james wanted to make money .
thanks for the drink , jim .
" it ' s sloppy .
' ' i ' m just kidding .
“roger , don’t you think i really could be good for you the way i was in the story i
like that .
your intuition ?
i ' m a nature-writer .
the left .
they sank leaving a trail of phosphorescence in the water .
" " what story ' s that ?
" you ' re ten years older than i am .
sounds like a nation .
i could sit in the marinas and listen .
poor russian .
in a few minutes a girl brought a stone pitcher , steaming , into the room .
” “tomorrow we’re going to try those farm houses and the church again .
' i had seen the old man ' s eyes while he watched me drink and i knew he was
" i had the feeling as in a nightmare of it all being something repeated , something i had been
” “you wouldn’t take a cigar ?
her sorrows come regularly .
the three key points , he thought .
before it was really light he had his baits out and was drifting with the current .
but i will show him what a man can do and what a man endures .
he got the hatchet and with his left hand chopped the anchor rope through against the bit .
" " one more , " brett said , " and i must run .
what i was doing .
” “straight up .
they can’t have put up much of a fight .
” the little man looked down at nick’s feet .
” “what about me ?
it just takes a while .
this grub is tops .
" " don ' t you think we might all be buried at a convenient place ?
and stick house .
" " no , " i said , " i like this town and i go to spain in the
” his mother asked .
the camera was at an angle on one side of the balcony window as carefully camouflaged as a machine gun
wine-seller—you drink that right down , lootenant .
recovering any line .
you couldn’t get near the bar and all the tables were full .
get me out .
the edge of the cape was wet with blood where it had swept along the bull ' s back as
” “an s .
" will you take a glass of wine with us , sir ?
i can shoot from up here and make a diversion .
if i begin to feel daunted i ' ll go off by myself .
it’s a good thing that girl likes fish , he thought .
“don’t be silly , enrique , ” he said .
of our bread which they all ate with much laughing , the men first , then the women .
fence and into a field of stubble .
” “they didn’t have a muffled hammer in the bible .
it was high from the rain , and black and smooth .
" " you know where she is .
“it’s like miles and kilometers .
we took it fairly fast .
with both hands .
para was gone out .
" " you better go back to town and stay there .
" they ' re a bunch of edna ' s friends from biarritz , " bill said .
shouldn’t chance a shot at much over that .
' something happens to our good writers at a certain age .
can he shoot ?
” “i can get the boat up to henry’s dock and then get a rowboat from the cottage and row
but he didn ' t need to be a swine .
and it was worse than desperation .
" keep my head clear , " he said against the wood of the bow .
but my old man said one day , in the dressing room , when he was getting into his street
we got the little memsahib and old karl and had a very jolly breakfast .
when i started out he woke up and went back to sleep again .
' ' you ' re not cut-able .
if i know an american girl that lives in strasbourg what the hell is it to frances ?
he was looking at nothing .
" you give fifty pesos to that punk and then offer me twenty when you owe me six hundred .
” there was always gambling then .
“that’s all right , ” zurito said .
although the finca vigía collection contains all the stories that appeared in the first comprehensive collection of papa’s short stories
go on .
get out and take him .
i know what we had before we came to the café .
" dolphin , " the old man said aloud .
“no better than you , ” i said .
he’s not stupid .
he was reading the paper through spectacles .
" he ' s got a left and a right just like a boxer .
she leaned forward on the barrera .
' ' i ' m sorry you came so far for so few ducks .
" sail on this course and take it when it comes .
“there is going to be some trouble here .
he looked at her and smiled .
" we walked up to the post-office and asked for a telegraph blank .
” “lunch tomorrow .
on it .
i ' ll get the car .
in the morning i came downstairs about eight o ' clock and got some breakfast .
, my best and last and only and one true love .
there were three pipes set on the lawn with spring water bubbling out of them , and little paths led
it made him too lonely to see it and it was on the shelf in the corner under his clean
" here ' s my street , " i said .
by the fire , with whisky and soda , we talked and i told them about it all .
“there is the true face of russians , ” the extremaduran said .
” “we’ve got a lot of country to get through first .
nick felt good .
“not until i can get it ready .
” “we do have fun don’t we .
they wore brown uniforms and were tall and their faces shone , close under the electric light .
he swung with the charge , sweeping the muleta ahead of the bull , his feet firm , the sword
’” “did you understand it all ?
all gone .
' ' but you couldn ' t have married a woman journalist that kept on being that ?
collected as a boy and preserved in alcohol , the alcohol sunken in the jars so the backs of some
” dick boulton looked at the doctor .
“you stay here .
that’s a proverb too .
he moved just like a tiger and he was the finest , free-est spender that ever lived .
they never have .
” “you have everything i have .
machine and looked straight ahead at the wall while the straps thumped up and down with his fingers in them
“i don’t need my strength up .
” “do you know what we do with them ?
wild , panic-stricken , despairing fight that soon exhausted her , and all the time the male had stayed with
we talked for a long time .
" nick looked at the big man lying on the bed .
” asked the sergeant .
hirsch , ” the woman said .
i was underweight , had a great appetite for meat , and could eat all i wanted without feeling stuffy
many of hemingway’s early stories are set in northern michigan , where his family owned a cottage on waloon lake
it was too hot to go out into the town .
" play the cucaracha another time .
it was a fall rain and the air coming in through the open door smelled fresh and like wet wood
then i went on , and my feet seemed to be a long way off , and everything seemed to
" " i want another one , too .
you said you had everything .
it was the same confidence another girl her age had felt a little more than five hundred years before in
i was shaving in my room when there was a knock on the door .
more control .
he licked his lips .
' ' eat .
the fish didn’t make any difference to him .
shot i felt that it was fixed and that we had him .
never write letters .
' only that our leader , himself , is in trouble .
and all the betting was on the nod .
hilt of the sword had gone in between the bull ' s shoulders .
but i fixed it so you wouldn’t get in trouble about it .
but i dream lately about this hand .
” “please sleep and you’ll wake up lonely and we can talk .
' ' it was just rough early morning joking .
” “this is my card , ” harris said .
" " it ' ll be all right , john .
' ' i couldn ' t take more than one , sir .
but as i looked at the table and remembered the old days i felt badly about him and i felt
' that ' s why she goes to the country .
you know their fly-way is through the great grain fields of the danube .
” “no , you come on and go first .
it wasn’t any good .
oh christian shrimp , he thought , master of retreat , and with your wonderful intelligence service in those two
“don’t you really believe i love you ?
” “she was a beautiful girl and i always liked her , ” mr .
gee , it’s awful when they go by you and then you have to watch them go farther away and
but really very deep secret that we knew about .
he felt the throbbing , jerking pull that did not yield as he pulled .
an expatriated newspaper man .
i went alone with abdullah and left the others behind and we went quietly .
" come and turn this damned thing off .
" " just a bright boy , " max said .
" she stood up and straightened her dress .
' ' also my love .
the bed went sailing off and i sat up in bed and looked at the wall to make it stop
“so many people in the ward , ” the mexican said deprecatingly .
you are a strange and lucky bastard , he thought .
they were our best friends but as soon as we were split they seemed like the others and the vehicles
that would have pleased them .
" badly cogido through the back , " he said .
' ' fine , sir .
the kitchen door was shut and when i put my shoulder against it it did not give .
" " you ' ve got hell ' s own drag with the concierge now .
pails full and then we’ll have them ahead for tomorrow .
" " read it .
but the other thing is gone as completely as when you have been in love ; you remember things that
by god , he was the biggest one i ever heard of .
' ' i didn ' t know that .
two weeks ago when a thorn had scratched his knee as they moved forward trying to photograph a herd of
' i have low blood pressure , ulcers and i owe money .
” till some one threw a bucket of water from a window and the moaning stopped .
we ' ve had an extremely interesting case .
” “oh , anything , ” said wilson .
nick’s father ordered some water to be put on the stove , and while it was heating he spoke to
' there were the big picture , the semi-big picture and the super-big-picture .
let ' s never talk about it .
” “but billy—” “i no mind billy .
” george was reading again .
when i was twenty-one years old .
and after it shut we went over to that other café .
even the red stick of wax was gone that i had used to seal letters and packages .
to shoot exactly as much as when he first had gone with his father .
there ' s no trick to a literary anecdote .
" are you a bankrupt ?
everyone had explained that .
" " all indians wear the same kind of pants .
younger of the two priests kneeling beside the chair .
' ' you can always remember how you shot them .
she ' s right at the end of the quicksand right at the edge of the gulf .
“charge straight , ” he said .
when i came back and looked in the café , twenty minutes later , brett and pedro romero were gone
we have so damned few guns that we’re just used as slightly mobile armored artillery units .
they sat there , nick leaning his elbows on the table , george slumped back against the wall .
field , all bunched still , sweeping around the long left turn into the straightaway .
” “i had a row with dick boulton .
i knew that if they remembered me their friendship would be loyal .
it sounds like a valentine slogan .
shade of the tree .
” “will you ride home with me ?
" tu ne peux pas , " fontan said .
who gets excited every time the weapon slaps against his thighs .
" wait , " the bicycle man shouted from behind the car .
as being recommended by a dutch hunter who had been here a year ago and who was dan ' s
damned good thing .
he watched her go .
that cayetano , he ' s a bad one .
' ' there ' s no more roederer cold , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
“i wish to hell he couldn’t .
' pop asked her .
they can crawl in and stay in there with you .
he had done some of the worst shooting at game i had ever seen and i had shot badly twice
we were camped .
were making together and i took a sip of the gin and tonic water and looked out the sandbagged window
people or foreigners .
sick inside , and that he would follow a woman who looked like her in some way , along the
' i could feel that i was getting the evening braggies but pop and p .
don’t kill me , ” and he stopped and kissed her .
chapter xviii the hall porter pushed the _gazzettina_ under the door and the colonel had it , noiselessly , almost
the rest was plaster walls and the windows of the neighbors .
you see , when a guy ain’t been riding for a long time , you can’t make yourself really believe
“or he makes them discontented so they have to trade them to him .
des saints pères .
domestic unhappiness with a rich wife ; and just when he had made up his mind to leave his wife
" how many corridas you had this year ?
and i poured the pint bottle full and some spilled on my hand and i licked it off and i
” “but you’re thinking about something else now .
" " i haven ' t had anything to eat for five days .
the big _ngomas_ .
“not now , ” the sergeant shut his eyes .
“got a damn fine lion .
” “sure , ” said the brakeman .
big bridges .
bandy-legged man with a tyrolese hat , leather shorts , and an open shirt standing before an unhooded engine in
we went through the monastery .
another absinthe for this señor .
" just then jack came around the corner with the letter in his hand .
” “i forgot to ask .
” the girl went out .
' ' we did .
it read : dr .
belly .
the holy grail was in our ancestors ' time .
it’s only dirty from the state of the roads .
” “how do i know ?
everybody knows you usually fish below the grist mill and the cider mill .
applause from the dark plaza .
i mustn’t tell you .
but it might be very late because she would be sleeping late .
dejected hen , who saw them too and quacked hard in her loyal treachery .
it slid off , thinning in the water .
you don’t have to worry about that .
it was understood he would not drink , and he did not want to see his friends or any one
the horses were pulling heavily in the sand .
missing is very bad too .
“you aren’t even on the crew list .
i was thinking about brett and my mind stopped jumping around and started to go in sort of smooth waves
” “the town’s full of bright boys , ” max said .
after the hot day , the dew had come quickly and heavily .
but it was too difficult and he sat there with the mast on his shoulder and looked at the road
you talked plenty of the other five subjects though and in the evening the best looking girls in the town
very able at it .
' ' kufa !
“let’s get out .
one cut of his pigtail and was waving it and a kid grabbed it and ran away with it .
' a very old , worn , and faded black man , with a stubble of white beard , a
' no good , ' i said .
“i don’t know , ” said nick .
" " two hundred francs is a great deal of money .
“you’re some boy , jack , ” john says .
" " there ' s no hurry .
* * * * * outside in the corridor the detective sergeant stood with the interpreter beside mr .
" sit down , " he said .
" wednesday , i think .
i know how weak men are .
littless might not like this big one .
his polo shirt .
which , in this case , were ducks .
he had it coming to him on the stuff he’s pulled .
but i would rather be exact .
" one never gets anywhere by discussing finances .
“he went for juma and knocked him over , ” his father had said .
" campagnero accepted a pair of varas for the death of one rosinante , with hernandez and manolo at the
they passed him and i shot and was behind him .
there were four men back of him now .
because i wrote the book myself , ' his best friend said .
they were the weaknesses that developed alongside his strengths like the crevices in a glacier under its covering of snow
i don’t want to be shot .
george looked at the clock .
' ' where you go , you know---- ' ' oh , ' the girl said and blushed .
my god , i make the sauce all right , and he eat it all and said , ‘la sauce
, ' all right ' .
” then in a little while he saw it was a tanker and not buildings and then in less than
” “no , there wasn’t any scene .
" " they do have some rather awful things happen to them , " brett said .
' ' i ' d rather get one , a good one , than all the rest .
manuel sat up on the operating-table .
“hello , solly , ” jack says .
” “maybe the truck will come .
" we kissed again on the stairs and as i called for the cordon the concierge muttered something behind her
but i wish it to you anyway .
still , none of it had touched him .
” i didn’t pay any attention to the rummy .
he’s naturally a little exhausted after the treatment .
you don ' t think we could skip it ?
' all that will be attended to , ' the colonel said .
outside in the corridor the detective sergeant stood with the interpreter beside mr .
a body bulking smoothly .
my father got the suitcase down , opened it up and put the book in it and something out of
what about the ranch and the silvered gray of the sage brush , the quick , clear water in the
a new boom .
his father reached over to the shelf for the pie .
' i can remember him , ' i said .
of the woman that i pay alimony to , who could not even make a child .
" " they thought we were snappers , all right , " the man said .
” “it’s a lie , ” peroxide said proudly .
his face still had the contortion which , in the ring , he made into a constant smile which frightened
" now , " he said .
“which would you rather do ?
there were plenty of nice things floating around in it .
" " are you an italian ?
one reason was that you did not talk politics there .
” “north , ” said nick .
' must have been two of them .
” “well i was working at the lausanne conference and it was the holidays coming up and andrew’s mother who
the grasshopper bottle swung against his chest .
" " he was eighteen feet from nose to tail , " the fisherman who was measuring him called .
" " there ' s good swimming , " i said .
but somebody might hear them bark .
a big cedar slanted all the way across the stream .
" hel-lo !
that winter the colonel , who was a lieutenant then , and in a foreign army , which had always
' ' how do you know this ?
“i’m going to sleep here all night .
" can ' t you stop that sort of thing ?
banal story now i lay me after the storm a clean , well-lighted place the light of the world god
“still has lots of gas , ” said paco .
m ' cola grabbed my hand and droopy slapped my back and all laughing we started on a running scramble
forelegs and dumped them into the shallow water .
he doesn ' t read french very well himself .
the nigger came on board with the bait and we cast off and started out of the harbor , the
we had it for you .
the mango crop was gone along with all the other things that went that year .
he waded with the current .
the roman ' s and hunt that country slowly , living there and hunting out each day , sometimes laying
” “what are rats d’eau ?
and cut into little connected sections ; moving with the hills and the hills moving with the trees behind it
“i don’t care who is president here .
his home at the finca vigía from _num_ to _num_ .
" " yes , " the boy said .
" " well , " the count shrugged his shoulders .
" it ' s good it blows us away from the sea , " guy said .
' ' i doubt if the religious authorities would permit it at this moment .
all ramadan he never swallowed his saliva until sunset and when the sun was almost down i ' d see
” i had seen the place clearly enough from where i lay .
don ' t try and fool me on paris .
' ' do you ever lie ?
” “cheer up .
' but by god , i want to get one too .
he nodded and said , “yes , bwana .
you can see even better from here .
” doc fischer asked .
” “afterwards , when things are changed , it would mean a good deal to you .
al got down from his stool .
cutting his forehead .
rushed out .
” “when i go to the show i crouch down like this and try to look small .
this isn’t a part of the country where you eat very good either .
the workmen dug holes and fitted in the timbers , each timber numbered for its regular place .
i must go to spezia .
although , speaking literally , one can hardly say that they called for a goya since there has only been
plaza where he had had his greatest triumphs .
” “i’m going to stay with you .
or the bull and then he finally made it .
they had her daughter’s measurements now too .
they were sick right at the table .
" you won ' t mind the keeley .
in slacks , a tweed jacket and a brown felt hat .
“why don’t you cut off your coleta , manolo ?
they hunt ducks nights too , with big punt guns , out along the edge of the marshes on this
how are you called ?
but it would not open .
" stick around .
we made a big curve so i could see the other cars curved ahead and the engine with the drive
if you loved the city of venice it was an excellent game .
the self-confessed bird shot , ' she said .
when they had to say good-bye , in the station at milan , they kissed good-bye , but were not
torcello and the high _campanile_ of burano beyond it .
” “hey , looie , ” the waiter called to the next room , “chaves got cogida .
we had met in the room of an american woman journalist who had a splendid electric heater .
call the home of this lady and let her know when you have completed the communication .
” “you want them with water ?
handkerchief were having an argument at a table in the galleria .
” i went over and did just that and the sullen waiter brought a plate of cold sliced meats ,
” “that was bright .
bill and i sat in the down-stairs dining-room and ate some hard-boiled eggs and drank several bottles of beer .
” “i tire you talking ?
he had used three battalions and held one in reserve .
but figure him and his people , the whole great business establishment , so far back that the best way
it was a heavy , double tapered fly line .
” “i saw the bastard , ” the man said .
" " who ' s she ?
why do you follow brett around ?
" " lovely place , " i said .
“enrique , ” she said , and he could not see the way her eyes were shining nor the look
me , dictionary-ing heavily , ' where was the one they were watching ?
‘maria , some beer , ’ he says , ‘for god’s sake .
he’ll go some place that he knows .
every one was looking out the window , and the doctor , who was a most excellent doctor , was
' ' that ' s a filling station .
" " don ' t go if you don ' t want to , " george said .
does it mount to your head ?
was served , toward the city hospital which was on a high hill that overlooked the smoke , the buildings
the third had taken theirs , but it formed an untenable salient .
" well , i suppose we got to go eat , " jack says .
" he asked in spanish .
you ' ll stay here , won ' t you , robert ?
could have stayed with that bull for ever ; then , looking at the heavy , woolly clouds that so
' beauty , ' he said , ' _ma très chère et bien aimée_ .
it’s very healthy .
none of them minded anything once they got off the pier .
to see the edge of the forest clearly in the glasses .
" " tell me .
“i am a professional gambler but i like to gamble .
" the fiesta was really started .
but when his mother died his manager thought they might not always be so hot on each other .
san fermin , ' " bill said .
" good-by , " she said .
' ' we ' ll see you at supper , ' pop said .
braddocks looked out on the floor where georgette was dancing in the arms of the tall , dark one ,
" but man is not made for defeat , " he said .
look at your girl sleeping and know this : home is going to be where people do not have enough
” she shook her head .
” “can’t tell .
” “will you tell me about it ?
i’ll be in the chapel praying .
" you mustn ' t feel that way .
“you can walk back around the point .
quand jétais petite ma mère m’a dit , ‘vous mangez comme les polacks .
” he handed over a pigskin bag .
” “oh , yes , i saw them .
cayetano looked at mr .
' ' there is one at that time that is supposed to be really good .
he must have gone through plenty of that before by the look of things .
didn’t you hear me say no ?
_num_ shorts .
then , looking at the watch , in that quiet tone , that valuable quiet tone , " savoia .
and joking .
i had one then but it was easy .
many bugs .
that was a typically french way to furnish a room .
“i’ll bet her mother was beautiful .
then he massacred the poor , bloody bull-fighter .
they had bypassed it to the north to save time and driven north of lake pontchartrain and across through hammond
else shot .
” “where is she now ?
when i would ask her what was the matter she told me it was too awful to tell me and
' ' we will walk as slowly as two people can walk .
" " damn my fish , " the boy said and he started to cry again .
giorgio did not really like the colonel very much , or perhaps he was simply from piemonte and cared for
” “oh , my god , i don’t know .
the ice broke like sheets of plate glass as the boat drove into it , and onto it , and
there were wide wooden steps that led down to the pier that ran far out into the water and there
he lived at finca vigía (“lookout farm”) on and off during the last two decades of his life .
he talked about the shop to d .
' ' all right , ' the colonel said and his voice was thickened a little .
' ' i daresay , ' ettore said .
then they’re not used to that sort of thing .
” “this stream would make us rich if it was near home , ” his sister said .
machine at a time when people were not using their radios .
to the main ridge , it dark and cold in the evening , the moon not yet up , we
m ' cola handed me the springfield and i got in the front .
" " does he look badly ?
but there was no comparison with romero , although neither of his bulls was much .
will you call when you are awake ?
even shaef , because they read the name of the town in a newspaper , possibly sent in from spa
' ' do you know a lot about painters , sir ?
take picasso .
“gee thanks , ” marie said .
" she knows all right .
“we used to go all day to hunt black squirrels , ” he said .
“you’d still be able to tell i was a girl .
” john asked me .
this way when he was already ashamed and sorry ; the other took his pistol out and shot paco in
“i don’t know , ” manuel said .
had again and again come on dead trout , furry with white fungus , drifted against a rock , or
then lied .
i didn’t .
" he was talking to a man who was no longer listening .
i was in for cuttin’ a man .
somebody kicked me under the table .
suddenly droopy grabbed me and we both crouched down .
you seem all worked up over something ?
" do you lack for anything ?
the tall waiter was at the anarcho-syndicalist meeting waiting for an opportunity to speak .
not really .
[_he winks at the wine-seller .
we could see the vertical white stripes on their grey flanks and it was very satisfying to watch them and
' ' good-bye , carlo .
' ' that ' s why everyone goes to the country , ' the colonel said .
" " not in public .
brush while i would shout and watch the sun which was almost down .
now he waked , realized where he was , and got to his feet .
you spend all your time talking , not working .
” “roger ?
the auctioneer stood on the street corner talking with friends .
how did you break your leg ?
“reel on him , ” i said .
" i wish people would come earlier , " braddocks said .
they made us read you you know .
me with the flashlight and the two guns , we started in the dark back for camp .
that’s what the birds were after .
his mouth each time he breathed .
the schooner moved out of the bay toward the open lake carrying the two great saws , the travelling carriage
in the restaurant you could see your breath .
then his mouth full of ham , “listen you tar heel bastid .
" " many thanks , " said the big one .
“i wish we’d never come , ” the woman said .
i would make mistakes of course .
they either bustled or stood still .
' ' but we can have confidence in him .
but don’t you kill him .
it ' s a popular win for walcott .
' not like .
" you come back tonight all right ?
that’s eighteen days at thirty-five dollars and two ninety-five extra .
we crossed the bridge and walked up the rue du cardinal lemoine .
' ' this morning .
“i’m only talking , ” he said .
“i don’t even know where i’m going .
hills we had seen from burguete .
at the top floor .
the trees , his head up , staring at us , the bristles on his back erect , long ,
tenth of a kilometer stone , or any other completely solid object , and the line runs loosely across the
chapter _num_ at noon of sunday , the _num_ th of july , the fiesta exploded .
actually , you rise from the sea with the hair very flat and coming to points at the end .
so many young men get their likes and dislikes from mencken .
” roger read the paper .
' but it is like skinning a dead horse .
“you would have three thousand dollars and it could mean a great deal to you later .
is what we do to lenguas largas .
i love it now but i just can ' t think about it .
you can make the blade from a spring leaf from an old ford .
' why can ' t i go ?
nick was studying the banks .
what are you going to do when it’s over and we go back to the states ?
they are just damned beautiful .
at the shot you see the cloud of flamingoes rise in the sun , making the whole horizon of the
going through the stubble field they looked to the right and saw the slaughterhouse and the big barn in the
i heard the brigade was here so i thought i would see you or some one else i knew .
still , he had come home .
there was nothing on the salt when we came up to it after leaving the car about three miles away
there were many trails to it through the trees and on any one a bull might come silently .
” “fifty grand , ” jack says , “at two to one .
in a little while i had six .
but when the strain showed the fish had turned to come toward the boat , the old man rose to
if they could keep the madrid-valencia-barcelona railway and open up madrid-saragossabarcelona and hold irún it ought to be all right
once there had been a tinted photograph of his wife on the wall but he had taken it down because
a revival .
the motor cars were gone from the square by the war monument .
all you get are handouts and sight-seeing .
” “were you scared ?
writers are forged in injustice as a sword is forged .
home .
he had kept with him all the time in his hand , they started on the trail for the shamba
" " not for me , " the waiter said .
” “you’re a writer all right , ” said one flyer .
it ain’t just a bluff .
come from a long way off , and i could hear my feet walking a great distance away .
he rushed , but always came , the spring of the rod yielding to the rushes , sometimes jerking under
he stepped close and jammed the sharp peak of the muleta into the bull’s damp muzzle .
and suddenly he ceased being an old timer and we were hunting together ; he and i hunting together and
' what did you do in civil life , jackson ?
" how ' s that ?
" " well , " i said , " it can ' t hurt marcial any .
the match was made at a hundred fortyseven pounds at three o’clock .
“i don’t at all .
what the hell’s the good in taking chances ?
' ' oh , over there somewhere , ' pop said .
“a wound ?
sick .
a sandy road led down to the ford and beyond into the woods .
their faces were very black and they were too tall to stare .
to the little stream that came out of the mountainside , and found a fresh lion track and many rhino
“i think we had better go .
" " it ' s funny .
she could see his bulk under the mosquito bar but somehow he had gotten his leg out and it hung
“i just got out of the hospital , ” manuel said .
it was so cold my hand and wrist felt numbed .
it comes to you in small fragments that hardly show where it has entered .
i ' ve never been in a professional ---- but i imagine they run it much the same .
we both knew him very well .
field and i could not figure where we were to go from there .
but i don ' t write , daughter .
" i was just a little tight .
or you go off to be alone and think or not think and pick a good piece of cover and
i was pretty pleased .
" " that ' s the dinner .
" " wonderful .
sick as hell and i was scared and felt sick inside because i knew something had happened and i didn’t
he really respected her love of culture because she said she loved it just like he loved good bonded whiskey
i’ve seen them now .
him to do but to lie down and die , a small moss-flower of extraordinary beauty caught his eye .
“how was he , doc ?
” “why don’t you tell him ?
turner was a man who knew what things in life were very valuable he did not wake him .
there was a heavy dew and as the wheels went through the grass and low bushes he could smell the
the roman ' s brother was obviously not a hunter and the husband was not very interested .
he shot the same way in the field when he was twelve .
people had laughed , however , and the flit gun man , not noticing how the singing had fallen off
the lower fields and the woods of the point to the lake .
” “give me kiss on the face , ” said trudy .
* * * * * the next two days in pamplona were quiet , and there were no more rows
that in some way he could work the fat off his soul the way a fighter went into the mountains
“there’s coffee below , ” i told him .
i ' m _pretty_ sure i ' ve killed him .
if it is your town and you have walked under them , but that are only too heavy , that
slough of higher reeds than any we had come through .
sure , admit it , boy .
' i said to her , ' what you going to be ?
off him .
now go and bring her back .
he turned and looked down the stream .
he started to pull the fish in to have him alongside so that he could pass a line through his
bill had seen one season of bull-fights .
let ' s go to harry ' s for one , and then i will walk you home .
maybe not the biggest landowner but raised the most pheasant anyway .
danger and the fear of it had once made him feel empty in his stomach .
bare ground had been varnished with ice .
' how is your mother ?
' ' and they would think there was a break-through when they would see the bursts and you never shaved
” “oh , shut up , ” marjorie said .
“he had eau de cologne .
' ' i ' m waiting .
" i stood by the door .
though you may have .
nick went on up .
“so you’re going to be one of these popular champions , ” jack says to him .
for a while we had joked about it and i knew everything would even up .
' this is good for you , daughter .
“you can read it out at the field .
” “what do you want me to call it ?
shells fired from the batteries behind us , the thud of their bursts , and then the rolling yellow clouds
before man , and that it has gone by the shoreline of that long , beautiful , unhappy island since
and it’s much better for you to be working when ’m writing .
” “it isn’t friends or trusting you .
" " i will keep the cash box myself , " he said .
he felt the iron go in and he leaned on it and drove it further and then pushed all his
" we had a couple of drinks without saying anything .
you ' ll probably get an oryx to-morrow anyway when you ' re hunting meat .
' ' i wouldn ' t say you were .
” as the car moved slowly across the open space toward the island of brushy trees that ran in a
" " really going ?
” “couldn’t you get out of town ?
" i ' ll ride back now in the afternoon .
” “why when it will make no difference ?
“i’m through now , ” he said .
' but don ' t you ever run into anything , or let any sparks strike you , when you
the noise had come from .
the letters were from the states .
stop it .
chapter _num_ it was a warm spring night and i sat at a table on the terrace of the napolitain
the baggage was unstrapped from the roof from under the big tarpaulins and lifted down .
“this time of year the indians call them fool hens .
like ice cream .
' you can leave it in the car .
when i looked up again , very slowly , i shaded my eyes with my hand .
boat .
' s .
' it ' s very like you .
we have a fixed tariff .
i ' ve done nothing but walk .
' i knew he hated to make a stalk and to shoot in front of people and so i said
it was hot and i felt happy .
“say it again .
table .
” asked the woman .
her bow wasn ' t very far under .
but god knows he has had enough chances to learn .
but they’re pulling them back now for china they say .
wine and watching the grebes out on the lake .
” “wait a sec and we’ll take it together .
“when you talk like that i don’t hear you , ” the boy said with dignity to doctor wilcox .
' am i going then ?
i must get him another shirt and a jacket for the winter and some sort of shoes and another blanket
but the head was big around more than four feet anyway .
“well , he was shot in an accident and i haven’t any one i can depend on in police circles
" horace , " doc fischer said , " you don ' t mind me calling you horace , do
and i want it to be spring and i want to brush my hair out in front of a mirror
" " listen , " george said to nick .
he’s got the numbers of the boat .
sun , moving with a quick waterbug-like motion across the hill .
i probably picked up that phrase in the philippines .
“louse is the word .
johnson , what do you say we go out tonight ?
" he turned with the paper in his hand .
' no shoot kuro ?
” “i see , ” said johnson , “and you say you have never been divorced ?
” “mangez ici .
he heard her coming up the stairs and noticed the difference in her tread when she was carrying two glasses
' kandisky asked .
he put both hands over her breasts and held her to him .
it was pitiful .
enemy had advanced .
as musicians they are fatal .
' so we got him off the road .
” “i’m quite sure of it , ” i said , “but you’d best go on board ship and not
" " it ' s a friend calling me , " i explained , and went out .
” “what , darling ?
up the other bank , pulling up by some projecting roots , and along it until they found where the
the basques liked it .
“i think i’ll go for a walk , ” the doctor said .
he stood on the porch looking out .
' ' of course not , ' the girl said .
he’s there , all right , manuel thought .
“we had a very fine room and in the fall the country was lovely .
" " i mean that .
” “yes sir , lieutenant , ” the negro said .
' ' go ahead and tell .
thick palm-trees with tables under them in the shade .
now showed high in anti-aircraft position .
" the sooner the better .
he watched and did not move .
him when swimming and paralyzed the lower leg and made the unbearable pain .
maybe the year after .
' he answered the driver .
' did you get in trouble with him ?
and they’re all afraid to die .
would you like to take some of that ham and some bread with you ?
" " i had lew fighting in philadelphia , " john said .
nickie , is it always this nice when you run away from home ?
you don’t know how it is .
“hey , ” captain willie called to the other boat .
i walked up the road and got out the two bottles of wine .
” “the down-state one was snoring just like the one outside .
luz stayed on night duty for three months .
i would stop fishing at noon to eat my lunch ; sometimes on a log over the stream ; sometimes
with it again .
there was a statue of ponte , or maybe it was zonda .
the appeal that manuel had made to him for a moment when he thought of the old days was gone
" " were you ever in love with her ?
they feed from pole-stacked hay .
i ' m not saying whether he was good or not .
i’m talking about trolling them when they’re hooked in the mouth .
“signorina !
“great news from the mainland” is another completed short story set in cuba .
my body .
shiver and the noise of you clubbing him like chopping a tree down and the sweet blood smell all over
fight .
can you give me a lift to latisana or just above ?
they were widgeon and they came in a whisp that coagulated and then stretched to nothing .
she don ' t work .
the brass grows higher than osage-orange trees along your own road .
the waitress was filling their glasses from the last wine of the opened bottle .
he was tanned and healthy-looking .
man-of-war floating close beside the boat .
nick looked down into the pool from the bridge .
as i came out on the grass and stood dripping a flock of teal came over very fast , and
eating breakfast before starting out , droopy came in to report a herd of buffalo he had found feeding at
" we wanted to join you .
i’d kill him like that .
” “why not just leave him ?
dead looking in the firelight .
brett had not been in the bar either , and so i looked for her up-stairs on my way out
all i must do is keep the head clear .
" " we ought to have gone last night .
” we said and leaned the skis against the wall and took off our packs .
” the big whore shook with laughing .
suppose you go to fight in china .
the sword-handler handed him the water-jug .
“listen to this .
" i hope not .
' then he ' ll feel better .
the summer was ending , but the new snow had not yet come to stay on the high mountains ;
" " where does he come from ?
what ' s the matter with mike ?
' ' dante was another _vieux con_ , ' the colonel said .
“i’d go through the woods down to the inn beyond the point and sell her the trout , ” he
how much do you think he knows about the country nick uses ?
we can put him away later .
none of the bulls came near him , and he did not attempt to join the herd .
' and i named the six cartridges again .
" when you want to see me i ' m down in the office .
then , while the old man was clearing the lines and preparing the harpoon , the male fish jumped high
again and finally drawing the charge and then , just before the horns came , giving the bull the red
' ' didn ' t like it .
" he was being sentimental about it .
the same evening about seven o ' clock i stopped in at the select to see michael and brett .
also he was sure that he loved her .
i never knew it till just now .
the wife went downstairs and the hotel owner stood up and bowed to her as she passed the office .
" " you like the married state ?
the doorway as the shooting down the street strengthened into a roll of firing , then dropped off .
games , about dogs , not much about horses , about hanging on to his money , about most of
they ate that and the trout that were crisp outside and cooked well and very tender inside .
" all night i lay awake and worry my can off .
bill reached over to the table under the window for the book that lay there , face down , where
" " the man in the dead-house---- " " get out of here .
hairy and shoddy the felt covering was in his hand .
he broke off some sprigs of the heathery sweet fern , and put them under his pack straps .
a waiter came in and stood beside manuel’s table .
” zurito called the waiter .
i waited a little while and then i took her in slow .
now he dropped over the hen mallard with her string and anchor and the calling duck bobbed her head under
we can grind it in guanabacoa .
“i don’t want to go either , ” he said .
” tom asked him .
it showed him at a slight angle .
it was dark and all around the square were the lights from the cafés under the arcades .
there was still ice in the bucket and the wine was cold and clear .
“stay where you are , ” my father said .
we met a truck at this place and slowed up , and he had the usual grey face and he
but my duty is to do what i’m ordered to do .
bed .
they were reed buck and they looked strange and awkward as they moved in the distance but trim and graceful
" " i know , " the old man said .
talking all the time .
man was sure that by gaining some more line he could have him alongside .
" " on christmas day , too , " doctor wilcox said .
it was a good catholic name .
" " the barber shop ' s closed , " cohn said .
” “no , you see , ” he said .
he sat down in the cockpit and then he lay down .
they’re usually the worst sufferers in these little affairs , ” the doctor said .
” “do you understand dialect ?
" this is no great thing of a restaurant .
” “you know i like you to drink .
the first to kill a kudu to get first crack at the sable .
outside of houses , ever hear .
' it ' s been a long time , ' the colonel said .
i ' m scotch .
” you could see him out a half a mile , still throwing spouts of water .
' we ' ll work around her , ' pop said .
” then he spoke in swahili to the two gun-bearers who looked the picture of gloom .
of wilson’s big rifle , and again in a second crashing carawong !
harris had tied them himself .
you tell me , general , and , incidentally , while we are discussing the matter and it is frank
" i like to drink champagne from magnums .
" how ' s cayetano , sister cecilia ?
" " you can ' t insult me , " said peroxide .
rifles , intrenching tools , ammunition boxes , star-shell pistols , their shells scattered about , medical kits , gas
' you never saw him before in your life , ' the colonel said to the hen .
it was the greatness , but it did not make bull-fighting wonderful to him any more .
they’ve got spanish morocco , sevilla , pamplona , burgos , saragossa , he thought .
” the down-state man put the bottle down .
crushed by the hooves of the horses of the other people and nothing left to him for the rest of
i got out my check-book and deducted four checks drawn since the first of the month , and discovered i
” an african story he was waiting forthe moon to rise and he felt kibo’s hair rise under his hand
" how is he ?
“i’ve dropped the whole thing , ” she said , sitting down at the table .
" " where did that crazy go ?
' i ' m down to shoot at san relajo .
of boss over and unders .
he was a well built boy with very black , rather curly hair , good teeth and a skin that
or touching his handlebars .
“if you’d have married her you would have had to marry the whole family .
" i say i ' m just back .
a clean , welllighted café was a very different thing .
” “if we have to film it , i meant , ” i said .
' you stay here , ' i said to garrick .
” “good , ” she said .
you will pardon me if i break off our conversation ?
they’re like five-finger exercises .
mister , it was a night about as cold as tonight .
jack wasn ' t ever what you would call a sprinter .
i can’t stand it very much longer .
' mzee .
the chauffeur had to go in and fill out some papers about the car and we got out and went
” “i’m going to die tonight , ” he said .
“i bucked it for a while with some good people but we didn’t get anywhere .
piled on a hull-deep load of lumber .
the northers , in the winter , pile the sand up and close it .
' he shouted , pointing into the timber on the other side of the head of the valley .
i love you , really .
” “i don’t know about that .
they were fresh and hard and he laid them side by side and dropped the guts and the gills over
he was very noble and he loved to fight .
' ' hurt me ?
” he slapped her again quickly .
every one danced .
english professor .
a negro in a narrow-brimmed flat-topped straw hat and a gray alpaca coat and black trousers was walking along the
i had no bone spurs .
” he stood behind his desk in the far end of the dim room .
“i just know things .
i’m sorry , mister adams .
he wore what used to be called polo shirts at school , and may be called that still , but
' i grinned at him and he shook his old bald head and it was understood that i had said
' he lives next door but he goes to the gritti sometimes to eat .
the train was slowing down .
and there they were .
' ' that man streeter was damned funny though .
" so he thinks it ' s all right .
” “are you criticizing me ?
i’ll see that your call goes through at the hospital .
didn ' t you see the way she looked ?
" he lives up at hirsch ' s rooming-house , " george said to nick .
my mouth was so dry that it was hard to talk .
then he woke once with the moonlight on his face and he thought of the elephant with his great ears
when they made a dry camp at dark in the forest he went to sleep as soon as he sat
" " you ' re about a hundred and forty-four ahead of me .
" his initials were e .
" say , " bill said to me , " have i got any chance on that bet ?
the catholic church had an awfully good way of handling all that .
" " i was going good , " manuel said .
but nothing more came .
' ' i was looking at him as at a drawing by goya .
there are other things , too .
he’s drunk , isn’t he ?
' ' i ' m not your honey dog .
i took another good drink of the juice as we lay and checked everything and looked up the road to
soldier’s home krebs went to the war from a methodist college in kansas .
the men on the fifties were shaking their hands over their heads like fighters .
” “maybe he’s back at camp now , ” his sister said .
his father knew it now and there was nothing to be done .
with the parmesan cheeses and the hams from san daniele and the sausages _alla cacciatora_ and the bottles of good
shot went off i grabbed the forceful girl by the arm and dove for the kitchen door .
i was always too damned smart .
” “i’ll walk up as far as the cottage with you , ” nick said .
made , and the colonel heard their feathered trajectory and swung and killed the drake .
the valley while we were glassing it and when i pretended i was going to shoot him garrick became very
i drank it without sugar in the dripping glass , and it was pleasantly bitter .
they have glasses too .
were ridding himself of something obscene .
little more , he leaned against the wood of the bow and began , mechanically , to work the fingers
' ' i think that handles it , ' the colonel said .
at the hotel i went up-stairs .
” making it cold , no time to get it , he couldn’t find his own after the cave-in ,
" i ' m going to sleep to-night .
” “it’s a little bit late now .
the eye of the elephant had opened wide on the first shot and then started to glaze and blood came
the road was gravelled now and we left the plain and started up between two foot-hills ; the road in
the masai stooped and put the rabbit on the ground and as he ran free they all laughed .
” “except for everybody in the café , ” i told him .
” “listen , comrade , ” said al .
" clear up .
to spook a bull off of it , by a shot , to frighten him in the way we had
that was bad luck all right .
the man ' s chest .
" making it cold , no time to get it , he couldn ' t find his own after the
“please stop it .
” “until you’re too tired you walk in the sandy part of the road when ; their horses made holes
, m ' cola holding his hand on mine , we watched him , only a dozen feet away ,
” “hey , al , ” max called , “bright boy wants to know what it’s all about .
” “maybe we better do something about the evans boy .
in time of war we dispute about nothing .
" " how would i not ?
the electric light was on .
" " have a drink ?
" you ' re feeling it now , fish , " he said .
s new boots always hurt for weeks before they became comfortable .
what would that cost me ?
trail when they had followed the elephant .
but i think it comes from up beyond bassano on the other side of the grappa .
i mean my time for the wood i split and corded .
of bait .
" * * * * * then afterwards they sat , the three of them , listening for a black
he sat down at the table and ordered a coffee .
' ' that ' s all , i guess .
” “i hated it , ” she said bitterly .
she was a fine woman , marvellous really .
" " i don ' t know how to describe the quality , " cohn said .
a country house , or a church , or hire giotto to paint you any frescoes , if you '
“what do you do here nights ?
' who ' s a beautiful woman ?
" is it raining ?
the sun was out and the day was bright .
“black ass at the cross roads , ” a completed short story , was written between the end of world
” “you know frank , ” he said .
then he gestured at the crowd , his hand warm from the bull blood .
my old man said the black was kircubbin and i took a good look at him and he was a
maybe they are both .
austrian ' s lorry , i knew there were only two days more to hunt before we must leave .
” “soldier bahtlett was out here wukking with you for a while , wasn’t he ?
” “listen , ” red said .
, as i am .
how fond he is of you .
we were glad he had it and all of that had taken on a correct perspective .
” he smiled , reluctant to press the subject but needing to bring the young gentleman into action .
' ' sorry , ' he said .
juma gave him the rifle to carry after they came upon the last pile of dung but after an hour
je n ' aime pas les houblons .
" " he ' ll be all right .
he seemed sad , really , like carnera .
" carl was quiet .
spezia spread below along the sea .
" " couldn ' t we go off in the country for a while ?
do you want some ?
" brett looked at the yellow wall of the chapel .
” “you can take the leg off and that might stop it , though i doubt it .
" there ' s roncevaux , " i said .
” “grapefruit please .
just then he saw a man-of-war bird with his long black wings circling in the sky ahead of him .
“what’s evans carry when he goes after a boy who’s licked his own boy twice ?
“this is mr .
“we weren’t .
' nor will anyone else unless you want me .
she was more ambitious than mr .
the middle-aged waiter was seated on the terrace of the café alvarez drinking a small beer .
under another tree i could see the poor old wanderobo-masai holding his first and last job as gun-bearer .
“so what ?
' ' i always supposed he was a great general .
there is such a thing as starting it all over and you’ve been given a chance to and you can
somebody came and pushed him up .
” she sat down on a chair beside me .
” the english newspaper man said .
at the next table was pedro romero .
she was lying on her side , reading .
the man who owned him , if anyone can own such an animal , knew what a great bull he
' i asked him .
you can count the losses out there if you like .
but after that each one can widen the opening of the hook wound and he can throw the hook .
” “try just a little .
but it was very unlikely .
i looked for sharks but there weren’t any .
the nigger porter was asleep in one corner of the leather cushioned seat .
and is practically so now .
" where is he shot ?
” “mais on a battu .
bank’s too steep .
at the end she knocked on a door .
' look at her .
” he said to my father .
the pace .
and understand it .
i was up in front with the driver and i turned around .
' ' truly .
" feel pretty happy ?
as i dove through the door something with a steel hat on passed me going for the stairs .
" you know where , " said tom .
in relation to the fields and the thickets ; hunting the country in his mind as he went by ;
" i ' m getting a lit tle sleep .
" oui , monsieur .
what about your little friend , zizi ?
m ' cola was tracking slowly , steadily , and absolutely absorbed in the problem .
that is an easy way out .
of unreality and the fact that there were no wounded did much to rob the disaster of a horror which
" please don ' t go in again , bill .
i never gave her anything , as she pointed out .
“i can still feel him pull , ” johnson said .
we were all a little detached , and there was nothing that held us together except that we met every
' m ' uzuri ' , meaning good , well , better , had sounded too much like the name
the fish had slowed again and was going at his usual pace .
the trail in the moonlight , bright across the valley .
the detective went into the woods a couple of times and then came out .
' ' suppose you and he ate some funny-sounding beast and then got drunk .
we started down .
an eccentric , perhaps , but quelqu ' une , quelqu ' une !
" " i got that on the telephone last night .
” “i said you would embark them for there .
the track came out through a cut and where the fire was burning the country opened out and fell away
” “oh , you are going to attack again ?
" " do you know what you are ?
after the meal , he left with the waiter in search for a place which did not exist in the
” “oh , take it easy .
she brought the coffee from the kitchen and mr .
' ' of course not , ' the colonel told her .
" said brett , " the things a woman goes through .
the cap is treating you like you were his own mother .
that’s what we’ll call it .
” the road was unrolling now through some scattered hardwood and then across cypress swamps and hammock country and then
his arms around her .
the brakeman had seen the little man run across the tracks and into the woods .
we climbed down from the wall with the crowd , and had a last look at the bulls through the
that was it .
” “where did you learn all this , daughter ?
' ' he ' s a wonder , ' i said .
mama tziggi , who owns all these locusts .
you ream out people you respect , to make them do what you know is fairly impossible , but is
and white across the wide , building-sided canyon of the gran via and we walked up the sidewalk with the
a waiter i had known in the old days came over to the table and said something to me .
” “i guess i said a lot of fool things .
nor was the river that way .
what’s the use of taking care of yourself all these years when you can’t sleep ?
it was two .
" " come on , " i said .
we took the house but it took some time .
and steam from the bathroom .
there were birches along the stream and it was not big , but narrow , clear and fast , with
, the shelves of canned goods , seeing nothing nor anyone until she came to the post office with its
that is the one thing we do alone .
he had been in love with various girls before he kissed mrs .
* * * * * sister cecilia came into the room about ten o ' clock in the morning on
it wasn ' t any good diving unless you had a big hammer or something heavy enough to do good
" he likes it .
looked like tiger flowers , only four times as big .
two car-tracks and we drove down the centre to avoid sending the mud on to the men going home from
do you really want to know anything about him ?
' you were just thinking about the rapido .
if ettore says so .
she just wanted to put it on the line .
when i woke it was the sound of the rocket exploding that announced the release of the bulls from the
' i pointed to the canvas where the rain was making the finest sound that we , who live much
and then i saw one .
bottom something must have been open because there were pieces of things floating out all the time .
yes , by christ , his own father .
” “no , i mean you don’t have to stay if it’s going to bother you .
ole andreson said nothing .
" he did not want to think of the mutilated under-side of the fish .
but what could i say , in a note , that we did not say ?
stay with them .
“you’re getting so awfully discouraged .
sin novedad .
“it’s right here in the cash box .
" he ain ' t here .
the bull , waved his hand and the gypsy ran out , trailing his cape .
i looked over a couple of times and jack wasn ' t sleeping .
' ' how long have you ever had them hunt them in a good country ?
" it is not half-past two .
can we give you a lift ?
' ' i ' ve never read anything , though , that could make you feel about the country the
my own wine that i made .
sound-looking door open and step across the door sill into space : that floor and the next three floors below
she walked back to where jim was lying and shook him once more to make sure .
the high , double , tight-fitting door into the bull-ring swung open and manuel saw the ring in the hard
' what do you want for breakfast ?
' ' he ' s very intelligent , ' my wife said .
i have never seen a man in civil life as nervous as robert cohn--nor as eager .
but the old man always thought of her as feminine and as something that gave or withheld great favours ,
” margot looked at them both and they both saw that she was going to cry .
the trumpet had blown to change the act to the planting of the banderillos while manuel had been working with
there are some others too .
the white horse into the air , front hoofs pawing , and swung him to the right as he pushed
i know it seems like a lot of money but it was a lot of money when i bought the
” “don’t make up things .
betrayed him in their various ways before he died .
' said one .
one ; i hit them on the nose .
they ate swahilis , umbulus and wandorobos and they especially liked to eat hindu traders .
they had eaten with no light on the table and the old man took off his trousers and went to
at the wall .
beer , and then we ' d like the hops .
then he came at the usual hour , wearing a black band on the sleeve of his uniform .
i woke when i heard m ' cola come in , make his bed and go to sleep , and
“i’m sorry , manolo , but i’m not pic-ing .
” “you see if i made really completely good sense i wouldn’t be here .
' write these down for me , please .
would you give me just one ?
he had his rod and his bag and his net all in one hand , and he was sweating .
“where did you know mr .
“blindy’s the name , tom .
page boy use in calling in the lobby of a hotel in new orleans one time and still kept as
' it would have been quite natural for you to _have_ believed in it .
” “i don’t know , ” mr .
on ahead islands of dark pine trees rose out of the plain .
bill was at one of the windows .
“though the whole plant , ” says he , “was no larger than one of my fingers , i could
" " i ' m not sleeping , " jack said .
he was the most serious man nick had ever known .
i could see this new comrade was getting a little on his nerves .
bill was tired after the bull-fight .
” “i suppose there is no hurry .
nick had cut them each two slices of rye bread and he soaked one slice for each in the bacon
' you are asking for the army or as my physician ?
" she turned to the man who sat by the cook .
" and you give away a lot of things free too , don ' t you ?
you know hemingway the poet ?
“the other can watch to keep the birds away .
' ' it is very difficult .
cohn , i believe , took every word of " the purple land " as literally as though it had
the line of cabs and hotel buses .
“listen sergeant , i got to go to the can .
' ' i hate it but i love it .
" " i ' ve got to go in and see harvey stone a minute .
you shouldn’t have to waste country but on a long trip you have to .
certainly such a man is dangerous to our cause .
books in our time , men without women , and winner take nothing .
i know just what kind of a son of a bitch i am and i know what i can do
the dolphin were cutting through the water below the flight of the fish and would be in the water ,
it had taken a strange chance of hunting , a sudden precipitation into action without opportunity for worrying beforehand ,
juma pointed out where the great elephant they were trailing had stood while he looked down at the skull and
he turned his fine , long , tall back on them and looked into the mirror that is placed behind
i’ve nurse’s training and i’m going to give him first aid .
" inside the room the major lay on his bunk .
“it was very strange and very beautiful , ” baldy said and drank off the glass of champagne .
let him keep her where she belongs .
or you worked for something .
” “are you a midwife or a veterinary ?
there wasn’t any sense in wasting gas .
turner came into the room he saw clothing on a chair , an open suitcase , the bottle on a
“fine .
the heat came suddenly as he crossed the intersecting streets .
they had covered him with a coat and another coat was folded under his head .
now everything is gone and it is much simpler .
but all of the policemen in the car felt uncomfortable about maria now as she sat very straight with her
like , i will ask her permission .
' the colonel did .
he is only nineteen .
it is not a strong wine .
“my matador .
' ' what are we going to do after breakfast ?
what have they got to eat ?
' and he offered me the flask .
they were immune to its poison .
' don ' t bully me .
’ that the last thing i remember for two weeks .
he had taken the bandage off his right eye and cut the strings where they had tied his ears tight
“you needn’t be superior .
i thought at first it was a boulder falling , but m ' cola whispered .
these wartime experiences , including the people he met , provided many details for his novel of world war i
straightened up to let your neck stop aching and looked ahead , i knew m ' cola was immeasurably the
' no fear .
i was not at all sure mike ' s rods would come from scotland in time , so we hunted
“geld , ” peduzzi said finally , taking hold of the young gentleman’s sleeve .
we’ll come back in cold weather when we can really eat .
" i had better re-bait that little line out over the stern , " he said .
not them .
today i ' ll work out where the schools of bonita and albacore are and maybe there will be a
one , “the cat will be all right , i am sure .
you saw too many people ski-ing now .
he played it all night long , turned so low he could barely hear it , and he was learning
go away .
" " very .
one hears them shoot all night .
of all the ways to be wounded .
“he’s never right .
he did not even nod .
the girl brought us our change that the old woman counted out for her and went back to her place
so now i want to see the death of any self-called humanist *because a persevering traveller like mungo park or
evans was driving and the down-state man was talking to him .
shoot ' .
she was the biggest whore i ever saw in my life and the biggest woman .
him quite a time because he only worked one saloon at a time .
" did you ever see this nacional ii ?
” “sure , ” his father said .
it rests me .
” the local warden asked .
' there wasn ' t a bit of wind when we stalked the salt and there was just light to
” “will we see the ibises too ?
' ' i know , ' the colonel said .
” “that’s the name for it .
” “you will be , honey , ” the waitress said .
old felt hat , and he looked critically at the number of ducks on the bow of the boat as
hour .
" we had lunch and paid the bill .
” george sat silent .
” “without discipline everyone will die anyway .
where it joined the belly and well back over the withers , i did not watch him because i wanted
" we sat there on the porch .
but with one small lurch he could break it .
” i says .
" " we stayed at the trois couronnes , " said my wife .
but some nights i could not fish , and on those nights i was cold-awake and said my prayers over
” “maybe you told me about them , papa .
did we ?
' ' not a word .
“not too much , ” i said .
i wet my finger and put it up .
i felt i was a fool to be going back into spain .
' ' but you got your hand honourably ?
it ' s a thing i haven ' t taken any interest in .
' ' will we see them being married for the second and third time and then being blessed by the
you know i love you .
i made him go .
i thought it was accidental and went on : " she ' s been there two years and knows everything
” “don’t be tough with me , ” i said .
" what did you say that for ?
he was very bashful about his english , but he was really very pleased with it , and as we
c .
you’ll see .
“i should have thought any one in that family would be interesting .
' ' good night , ' she said .
' ' maybe , ' said pop .
” “i don’t think so , ” johnson said .
the three-day blow the rain stopped as nick turned into the road that went up through the orchard .
in the back of the paper .
credo roger .
the old man made the sheet fast and jammed the tiller .
he thought we were silly to go out so late and he was glad to prove us wrong .
" he ' ll make a beautiful bait .
gone , gone over him in a rush .
the old road was so overgrown that he had to stoop many times to avoid hitting branches .
manuel flopped the cape ; there he comes ; he side-stepped and swung in another verónica .
' ' you have me there , ' the colonel said .
carefully he reached his hand down and took hold of the hopper by the wings .
i was plenty sore .
solly freedman came over to our corner while jack is bandaging his hands and john is over in walcott '
it was reflected , in part , from the canal .
i missed him .
i asked him to have a drink .
" he ' s a good bull , " manuel said .
the hide was an inch thick where it hung in a cape behind the head and was as white where
“he was on the floor with his head enveloped in his arms .
i can make up well .
against rocks .
, to the inn .
john watched them go up the road .
' very bad for the liver .
they were the enemy .
when i ' m like this i just want to be alone .
but it would bore you .
it made strange , but steady movements , changing , as the current of a trout stream changes , but
” “don’t mind me then , because i’m going to sleep .
we must supply him with botulism and anthrax .
” “were you really ?
when it went he made a funny little noise and came forward , me holding him throat and all ,
got up to make me a whisky and soda .
solidly , for transport at noon to-morrow .
loved and we had no deads and did as little damage as possible .
' that ' s what you need .
“get out of here now , ” he said .
” “we’ll be out of it tonight .
were you , by any chance , on the carso ?
those names .
it’s really not anything .
” “good night , jack , ” i said .
the guard spat in the dust .
i wouldn ' t like to hunt in that .
“me too , ” he said .
" " oh-- " i said , feeling sick for him .
" " i ' m not joking .
richer , because she was very pleasant and appreciative and because she never made scenes .
' it ' s nothing extra .
' ' we were back two thousand yards from where we were to take off from .
and ten and twenty percenters and all the jerks from wherever who never fought and hold commands .
” then they went down the steep bank and across the stream , climbing over and around the boulders and
“it’s my business and i’m going to do it .
i didn ' t think he even believed in the kudu of the night before .
i was awfully slow wasn’t i .
he went on .
' ' how ' d you like to hunt elephant in that ?
” “i don’t know , nick .
" come in , " i called .
' ' we are all industrious , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
re-load , he saw the bull was down .
is robert cohn going to follow brett around like a steer all the time ?
his view out of his side of the car was blocked by our guest .
" le meillieur ?
” “no fucking place to spend it .
" " maybe .
the innkeeper was a tall man and old .
he came in carrying the log and bill got up from the chair and helped him put it on the
“it’s pretty quiet .
came up .
show up ; then i put her on her course for key west .
heads off so they would be legal eating .
and they could straddle a trench and enfilade and put flaking fire down it .
bill lost and paid .
could hurt ever again except the pain , and sitting on the bed he leaned forward .
a shiny dark splatter of dried blood on a stone .
” bill was buttoning up his sweater .
at a larger table .
“you know with the eight arms .
on ne fait pas de mal .
figuring things out has been your trade .
, using the sling , and shot for his neck , slowly and carefully , missing him eight times straight
" " i do feel such a bitch .
” there wasn’t time , of course , although it seemed as though it telescoped so that you might put
" but i can ' t go .
he was being led around the paddocks with his head down and when he went by me i felt all
" the porter took out a pair of gold-rimmed glasses from his coat pocket and looked over the list .
” in the back of the store mr .
“wait till i climb over and i’ll help you , ” nick said .
yes , it was black too , iridescent where the back and head were dusty .
in the morning we hunted , picked up a track at a spring and trailed a rhino all over the
“well , you will know , ” the man with the contemptuous mouth said .
what was it caesar said , ' and the bravest of these are the belgians .
they were both wonderful .
come on , let ' s go back to the café .
dust of it , and the noise of it was one great slithering sheet of rifle and automatic rifle fire
except the portrait .
he will have to put the head down to hook , like any bull , and that will uncover the
they sure looked as though they thought the old man was nuts .
i ' ll see to that .
straight up from the cove .
dan said they heard one .
on the place where they would come out back of the trees and then out they came with the old
they were trolling on their way to the point to set night lines for rainbow trout .
birds going on ahead of me and behind me .
“don’t be too sure , ” odgar said .
that you had to break a trail in , and the sun was very hot .
" " ought not to daunt you .
i was very excited at seeing him .
” “that’s an idea .
at a dance he fell into the easy pose of the old soldier among other soldiers : that he had
“i want to telephone .
i explained that bull-fight in spanish was the lidia of a toro .
the old men and women , soaked through , walked along keeping the cattle moving .
the country for a couple of weeks , he did not know where , but that he wanted to hold
he never dreamed about the boy .
" the two at the bar looked over at the two at the table , then looked back at the
the other basques had been impressed .
the monument to josé marti by drunken american servicemen and , always , the price of sugar .
while we sat in the machines correcting my grammar .
and look at renata ' s eyes , he thought .
true pride .
it bores the hell out of me .
" i don ' t remember , " mike said .
tea and toast .
" " that ' s fine .
eat for supper .
“i certainly sound wet , don’t i ?
' i can only stay a moment .
“gee i’m glad she’s going out there with her father , ” the waitress said .
i took a drink from the bottle .
, mounds of something smoking in the road ahead .
” “let’s not talk about how i am , ” nick said .
he grabs jack ' s arm and says , " can i hit when he ' s got me like
" " yes , " said the detective .
he heard suddenly , clearly , zurito ' s voice .
and they have to have been over for years and years before they are successful in london .
wonder who translated ?
" bill put his arm around mike ' s shoulder .
' i ' ll bet he ' ll get the biggest one ever known , now , ' i said
" go on , " he said , " before your number gets dirty again .
" we can ' t stand here .
” “hardly ever .
and i was stupid .
who did not speak spanish .
because we had given them what they had to shoot with .
the slopes are all too steep .
what a meal you ' ve eaten .
“listen , you think i’m drunk .
he crawled inside under the mosquito bar with various things from the pack to put at the head of the
it was just light enough to see the far hills beyond the swamp when he woke .
a tiny trout rose at the match , as it swung around in the fast current .
' chapter two we were out from under the shade of camp and along the sandy river of a road
the night was cooling outside .
he could not hear it .
the _gran maestro_ knew about this , since he had been an excellent sergeant in a good company of infantry
“it’ll be all right for bait but it’s better with the ventral fin in .
“we’re going after buff in the morning , ” he told her .
i know others better .
" " once in a while .
i remember that after we had searched quite thoroughly for the complete dead we collected fragments .
” she liked the resorters because some of them brought culture and mr .
i shoved the last shell in and garrick was trying to grab my hand to congratulate me when , below
" you two run along to the fight .
“but i’ve got to attack in the morning .
then i thought of her walking up the street and stepping into the car , as i had last seen
it’s bound to come .
now we must work .
trying to kill me and all the time i was trying to get the knife out of my pocket to
” “i’ll bet they are .
” the hell with it , thought robert wilson .
you tell him , jake .
you’ll have to pull harder than this tomorrow .
” “i threw the caps away .
right away of course .
of getting him plugged at me .
i had started to say suspenders and changed it to braces in the mouth , to keep my english character
' he talked to me softly again , begging and pleading .
the marc was good .
” “i thought you said you didn’t see them .
filling them both cost three pesetas sixty centimos .
second-rate matadors lived at that pension because the address in the calle san jeronimo was good , the food was
” “i don’t know , fred , ” my father said .
“all i say ain’t no buildings like that on no florida keys .
there is no necessity to stay .
brett held down the cape .
these were new dead and no one had bothered with anything but their pockets .
“that’s the side our bum tire’s on .
across the river were the broken walls of old houses that were being torn down .
” he went to hang up the hose .
go south , and then to run into one on this road where you met only an occasional indian trader
she heard him breathing as he held her .
lot of time to sit around because the work around a racing stable , for the jocks , that is
he pushed a button and the elevator came down .
blood spot formally with a long stem of grass .
didn ' t i say so ?
” johnson asked .
she don ' t cook .
' then someone , angry , shooting too fast to show he was being asked to shoot too fast ,
i ' ve driven it all over europe .
the fashionable people of the town , walked in the street on one side of the square while the café
” “you’d have had a chance .
inside the kitchen he saw al , his derby hat tipped back , sitting on a stool beside the wicket
" let him sleep , " the man whispered .
during the morning i usually sat in the café and read the madrid papers and then walked in the town
most of them there unwillingly .
and him working harder up and down a patch of the road .
“i slept all right , ” jack said .
george had cooked the sandwich , wrapped it up in oiled paper , put it in a bag , brought
' ' tell me something i can say in true american to the pitted one if he comes in .
' ' i am aware of that , ' the waiter said .
” “are they good ones ?
she kept up easily .
' ' give him full marks , ' the colonel said .
" manuel reached under the seat for his suitcase .
" where are the foreigners ?
it wasn ' t that .
nobody’s noticed it i don’t think .
” “what are kindred spirits ?
in the railroad business you’re away from home nights .
he came over , squatted down by the raincoat and started to talk .
antiseptics ran out that paralyzed the minute blood vessels and started the gangrene .
” “isn’t it lucky i’ve never been out so we’ll have it together ?
listen , where’s frank ?
good-bye .
he never got the kid ' s goat .
he lived , he would have someone to talk to at the early hours that he woke .
" he got many people out here now ?
" " the one who wounded him was a card-player ?
just at the moment of going off to sleep , and i could only stop it by a very great
like henry ' s bicycle .
we climbed around the tops of valleys , went across gulches , up and down ravines and finally came on
i could read in the mornings and walk around town before lunch and go every day to see the tintorettos
' ' all right , ' she said .
' wanderobo .
the cape to charge the man .
felt it go .
“i’ve told you , boy .
” “nor to tell you how it is ?
“i’ve got a right to eat this kind of stuff , if i’m willing to carry it , ” nick
" " i wish bill had been here , " edna said .
” “neither do i , ” said my father .
“alles ?
hair smelled rancid and she cried with her head on my chest .
“take some bottles , ” said the bald man .
“that makes nothing .
" hello , gents !
“no , ” he said shaking his head on the floor .
were crowded closer .
how some of that gang that hangs around the dock would be pleased at that , i thought .
" " kid lewis , " jack said .
but in the morning it is painful .
' ' then let us abandon all ideas of public manifestations for this winter , and work within our cadres
you have eaten bread and drunk wine with us .
' ' well , i had two days ' leave in paris between the schnee-eifel fight and this one ,
he lived in a smaller hotel with the other people who worked for romero .
the train was due at ten-thirty—an hour late meant eleven-thirty .
' nothing .
i pray for you all day long , harold .
were sitting under the dining tent .
what did it look like ?
" " the signor does not take bananas .
he had complimented me on how i spoke italian , and we talked together very easily .
we didn ' t count .
other .
” a meal in spezia we came into spezia looking for a place to eat .
but you don’t have to make incantations or exorcisions or any of that .
wonderful nigger .
' they want to hunt around the hill a new way .
' ' that will be worse .
can that being who planted , watered and brought to perfection , in this obscure part of the world ,
“how do you feel , littless ?
he really wanted to marry me .
” “they got ten pesetas a day , ” i said .
go , ” he said .
there was much wine , an ignored tension , and a feeling of things coming that you could not prevent
even if he ever was afraid he knew that he could do it anyway .
he never had any trouble making weight , did he ?
i ' ll leave my bags here .
he must remember that .
they’ll be the very best .
i suppose that ' s three or four hours in the car if the car can go .
and sat on high chairs against the wall and watched .
the other said in french , “i don’t know them personally but i’ve often heard speak of sportsman .
” “very quiet , ” said the little man .
“octopus .
“there’s nothing we can do now .
of them i save your life .
, charging to slide the horse off , horse sliding down .
the bull lay heavy and black on the sand , his tongue out .
the light was wonderful on him .
' ' let ' s gamble and have them bring one to the landing .
they had her measurements , and a vendeuse who knew her and her tastes picked the dresses out for her
" " another fool .
“wait , ” the bicycle man shouted from behind the car .
” “yes , ” said the girl .
“no , ” he said , “one for a vecchio .
' ' i know it , ' the girl said .
" they had coffee from condensed milk cans at an early morning place that served fishermen .
my father came back down the car to our seat .
back and my shoulders , and still able to see out through the slit in the blind .
what a spectacle !
the major looked at his brown face , down and up him , and at his hands .
" bring me another glass of milk , " jack said to her .
" you can take a nap if you like .
always moved before first light .
on the day of his arrival in milan a munitions factory blew up , and with the other volunteers in
me .
” odgar said , his voice becoming husky , near to kate again .
hogan came to the door and i said , “say , hogan , haven’t you got anything to shoot out
there was some italians come too , and they want to stay with us too .
we sat down at a table half-way down the room .
pop was at the car .
damn such shape springs .
when i started to use the big wood she was stiff and i put her up against the wall .
" tell her we are very ill , and have no money .
the other watched the old man with his slitted yellow eyes and then came in fast with his half circle
nick knew the trout’s teeth would cut through the snell of the hook .
medals , and all these coves were busy taking off their medals , and i had mine in my pocket
” “that’s up to you .
better than anything , except seeing a ship sailing along through the country .
” “how ?
" well , nickie , " his father said , " was it a good day ?
“i didn’t watch them , ” he said .
there was no promise , nor threat of rain ; only the same strong , wild , cold wind from
damned lucky to have it , too .
' ' it ' s always possible .
baboons ten miles away from his shamba up into the kudu hills to have a shot at them , and
“i don’t want you to lose me so early in the trip .
across the square in the doorway of the café a waiter stood looking out at the empty square .
do you think it is the same to wear stones that come from dead people ?
but we haven’t got any .
he didn’t even think that was funny .
they were gone through the woods .
” “son a bitch , ” billy said .
damned good letters , too .
" " tell me about out in chicago , " i said .
' ' we could go on the vaporetto for sixty .
i have bad taste from reading the illustrated papers .
smith asked , and jim went out to the wagon in the barn and fetched in the jug of whiskey
it was a good thing .
came in .
you know what i ' m betting on him ?
“that man would see .
” he held her very close and tight .
” “do you remember when we barred that phrase ?
“come on , ” said zurito .
the wind made it roar .
' a damned big cow , ' i told him .
' ' it is .
” “i’m going to work now as soon as we get out west .
" holding the cape in both hands so it would catch his eye .
dead if it isn ' t true .
the bull under and through so the horns passed safely under the horse’s belly and the horse came down ,
he cleaned it on the wood and put it in his pocket .
all we see or hear is revolutions .
it must have been a mistake .
' ' we should have some celery .
she had just been brushing her hair and held the brush in her hand .
” “my god , yes , nice fella all right , ” madame fontan said .
in that army an adjutant is not a commissioned officer .
and made a cut below his eye .
you never see him .
' please just love me .
“will you come down to breakfast , harold ?
there were only the flying fish that went up from his bow sailing away to either side and the yellow
the others started back to camp with pop and m ' cola .
” “i tried it last night .
" " it ' s odd .
she’ll help me because buying trout is just as bad as selling them .
are .
he knew about that , about motor cycles—that was earliest—about motor cars , about duck-shooting , about fishing , trout
it smelt good in the dark .
it was like navarre in droopy ' s country too .
would you prefer rum ?
“the train comes in five minutes , ” she said .
" " what will your family say ?
the town to the ospedale maggiore , the nails in my boots on the cobbles , and in the spring
" " oh , priceless , " i said .
" morgan and steinfelt looked at each other .
i think we could conservatively describe them as unfavourable .
" " and is it very expensive ?
i went down with him to the train .
then a patch of soft snow , left in a hollow by the wind , spilled him and he went
we had only three days more because the rains were moving north each day from rhodesia and unless we were
i ' ll try to remember his name .
i will have lost two hundred fathoms of good catalan cordel and the hooks and leaders .
" give me bacon and eggs , " said the other man .
“an accident that he hit me at all , the cabrón , ” he said to the interpreter .
we had been there in the dust , the smoke , the noise , the receiving of wounds , the
" " right , " brett said .
” “is spain all right ?
i get a big black one all right .
i wish to god i did .
' ' whatever you decide .
all he knows is to get in there and sock .
" " the man she ' s going to marry .
his head low , he swung the gun on a long slant , down , well and ahead of the
jack just raises the left hand up and it ' s in walcott ' s face .
' ' but they called him the bravest of the brave .
rubber sandals , gloomy-faced and disgusted looking .
carrying his bags .
" he shook his head and walked away , carrying the coffee-pots .
” “they aren’t very smart so far .
then , “get a little broadside and take him in the neck just behind the ear .
in the fading light , hung over the collar of her short , fur-collared jacket .
i think it must have been something like fighting in holland .
" robert cohn ' s going to buy a drink .
i understand it all right .
droopy and i started to run and as we were running i heard a low bellow .
continuing of his mother’s grave .
but he certainly put on a performance today .
" " should we have another drink ?
" i wish i could feed the fish , he thought .
see that the canvas does not touch the chairs .
down .
" " yes , this proves it .
the water came up in a tile sunk beside the road , lipping over the cracked edge of the tile
i unpacked my bags and stacked my books on the table beside the head of the bed , put out
the compass , steering , and when it came daylight he had seen the nigger lying there in the sacks
" they ' ve got skins on .
” “let’s go down and get the berries anyway , ” littless said .
when he ' s going well he ' s awfully easy to get along with .
drunk ?
take a good birching or lose your pay ?
i accepted his statement without corroboration .
men who answered the advertisement .
" oh , don ' t !
i wondered if there was anything else i might pray for , and i thought i would like to have
it would begin at seven in the morning .
the car circled at the top of the hill above the orchard and stopped in front of the house .
that night we hunted and saw nothing .
sun comes out , ' the colonel said .
” “don’t you want to get a paper ?
' ' it was easy , ' the colonel told her in italian .
“this is a good place .
nick had wondered about them as he walked , without really thinking about them .
” “let’s get a table , ” he said .
" a woman asked from the doorway .
the cut-off barrels of the shotgun made a slight bulge under the waist of his too tight-fitting overcoat .
” “listen , doc .
" mister campbell , " mr .
” “aw , he wasn’t out , ” hogan said .
he only knew his hands were shaking and as he walked away from the car it was almost impossible for
manuel noted the fresh blood shining down the black shoulder and dripping down the bull’s leg .
brett .
a nigger gets delusions like old jack or marcus garvey and they put him in the pen .
jack wasn ' t sore ; that is , he wasn ' t any sorer than he always was .
i feel good .
" brett laughed .
maybe i will get christian towards the end .
nor was he really resting except comparatively .
i went on shaving .
" " the three told me you win much money .
she seemed now to have a strange confidence .
” “i’d better go up the street , ” the motorman said .
running .
all round people were saying , “poor kzar !
there are barrels around the wall .
of a filling station and a neon sign advertising cabins .
a very ragged shirt , managed always to give an impression of great elegance .
nick and the cook were back to back in the corner , a towel tied in each of their mouths
' ' i ' m sure of it .
such thoughts as mungo park about those formed in his own image .
he reached in his pocket .
we ' re meeting people there .
” “you’ll write about her sometime , ” sister said .
the leaves had fallen early that year and been swept up long ago .
“you don’t want to spoil them .
he did not want to leave germany .
” “she is making most awful sport of me , ” the englishman said .
below , the sea was blue with whitecaps running toward savona .
" outside in the hot brightness of the street brett looked up at the tree-tops in the wind .
” “you did for a long time , ” the girl said .
i had not asked him why he had twenty up-country natives with him , nor where he was going .
" " let ' s try it .
showed up there and it was the place to start an evening from , all right , and we had
" " you can ' t ever tell .
“want a chair ?
nick drove another big nail and hung up the bucket full of water .
they all were grey and yellow like wax-works , in the summer .
you got any mcgintys ?
then when i was in sight of the rebecca light i saw all kinds of birds making over something and
mike was pulling at my ears .
then another long stream .
they all looked like the one i had shot and i was trying to pick a big one .
make him pay for the line , he thought .
" " oh , no , " she said .
some one had the bull by the tail .
i didn ' t mean to .
" i asked bill .
it didn ' t show what an awful beating he was taking .
it was a good story .
singing the hard-voiced singing .
" i ' ll climb onto one of those ponies while you collect the kids , " zurito said .
i don ' t guarantee anything .
speak of sportsman .
” “just when you have a drink , ” i said .
" he rolled over , sat on the edge of the bed , and then stood up .
they were sweeping the streets and sprinkling them with a hose .
" " well , " said george , " you better not think about it .
the car always stood outside the first national bank building where his father had an office on the second floor
” “not him , ” nick said .
he lit it and tossed the match into the fast water below the logs .
probably the one we heard early this morning .
" " oh , nobody reads him now , " harvey said , " except the people that used to
" hernandez grinned .
“listen billy , dear sliding billy , i have a surprise for you .
he was reading his book .
" i say , " said harris , " let ' s utilize it .
it irritated him .
he did not need a compass to tell him where south-west was .
it means bell tower .
' m ' uzuri sana .
' oh , let ' s not go into that , ' p .
there was a row about this .
" " i ' ll get all right .
so then you sit , bundled against the evening chill , at the fire , with a whisky and soda
now a greater than these two .
" don ' t touch me , " she said .
i felt his drag .
he sat on the front porch .
doesn ' t eat any more .
“listen , ” mr .
you ' ve frightened my concierge .
that was the big kill day of all kill days , when there was a certain amount of opposition by
" he said brett was a sadist , " mike said .
romero rose , too .
up that creek without a paddle .
” “and you weren’t afraid ?
i think i felt his heart , he thought .
but what a trade it is .
you’d like it .
' ' i wish , ' she said .
“i know what i’m talking about when i talk about that bird .
all she had to do was see her boots did not hurt her feet .
“i can count them , ” his father said .
“i got to go to the can , ” the little man said .
' exactly like that .
” we went up in the elevator .
maybe they eat all right there .
” “nobody i know .
i just changed it now out of kindness .
trees into the small hills of orchard bush .
i earned that name .
" " indeed not !
the young bull had the start of a spiral on his horns but they were short and dumpy and as
they dug them all up anyway , the colonel thought , and buried them in that big _ossario_ up by
the wanderobo was a pitiful chopper and garrick was little better .
' i ' m cagey .
it was warm and white and close under the covers .
" " well , " he said , " i hope you catch something .
“i’ll always remember this river now and we saw it only like the lens clicking in a camera .
probably flood the square .
let ' s certainly hope not .
in it was a man with a white curly sheep’s wool jacket , the wool worn inside , a pink
_ _num_ d soldier_--wasn ' t i standing right by her ?
“but we do .
pull or touch on the bait would make the stick dip and each line had two forty-fathom coils which could
" " he probably does .
he visited his old friend on the day he died .
the waitress came toward the table .
it was a damned sight easier not to hunt in that sun in that shadeless pocket and in the sun
when they evacuated they had all their baggage animals they couldn’t take off with them so they just broke their
" what ' s the round ?
“the major is sleeping .
" sit down , " i said .
all for five lire .
” “was ?
“they think you told the police you were meeting those boys here that morning .
” “we know all that , bright boy , ” max said .
exactly as though she had been dead over night .
” “she’s just a spitfire , ” the man said .
' if i had a joint or a roadhouse or some sort of an inn , say , i could
' but i would rather be your straight girl .
bumped his back , bumped his face in the sand .
this of course is inaccurate but it gives the effect .
he took the sack off , over his head , the trout flopping as it came out of water ,
" " go on , then .
chucho in a failure .
" here he is !
i just feel happy about him .
there is plenty of water over the reef and inside it’s all sandy bottom and slopes right in to shore
“everyone is helping me now .
' ' you ' re a strange girl .
there were furrowed brown mountains , and above them three peaks and a glacier with snow that you could see
' ' is it like cortina then ?
now it was done .
but she missed him with her claws .
" we looked out at the plain .
is a damn poor offer .
i ' d be too proud .
” “there’s that wise comrade , ” al nodded across at another table .
but i must not let anybody know .
“big ones ?
” the three of them started for the door , and i watched them go .
' yes , ' pop said .
he had noticed while looking into the fire that the fire was dying down .
" can i bring you some coffee ?
' ' i wish it was me taking the medicine instead of you .
i shivered .
he would not let me buy one in return , but said he would take a rinse of the mouth
“we’ll have to wait a while before we go in to find out” “what do you mean ?
killed , or that is relieved .
no , my god , not a bit .
this stuff don’t get you anywhere .
a comrade of about forty-five or fifty years old ?
" pedro romero , " i said .
then he looked at the girl , who was more beautiful than any girl that he had ever seen ,
he was suddenly conscious of the blanket rough against his bare body .
out of the entirety of his experiences in spain during the war he produced seven short stories in addition to
“no , ” said trudy .
no ?
horn .
sigismund wyer , ph .
as he watched the bird dipped again slanting his wings for the dive and then swinging them wildly and ineffectually
, slightly distorted as he watched far down through the glassy convex surface of the pool , its surface pushing
a buffalo up the other bank .
there were no shots from the other blinds and only occasional shots from the sea .
” harry pressed the self-starters and started the engines .
” the woman brought two glasses of beer and two felt pads .
then , too , i liked droopy and liked to watch him walk .
" " brett will tell you .
" they came .
the prisoner leaned toward the window side of the seat and the detective toward the aisle .
you will be wet .
” “his mother dead , ” trudy said .
you know i want you to have fun—” “please don’t say ‘you know’” “i’ll concentrate on not saying it .
black hair .
there is only one paname .
he was a middle-aged man with a large stomach and a bald head and he had many things to do
' then i was holding p .
one of the heads of the alphabet .
her bow wasn’t very far under .
one of the girls is in the fourth grade now .
mais qu’est-ce que monsieur va faire ?
“there’s a hell of a lot to be done , ” he said .
hen and a drake , and in each boat there was a dog who shifted and shivered uneasily at the
the matador who was ill was careful never to show it and was meticulous about eating a little of all
the vacant lot .
” i laughed and said it to tommy .
“burning .
” “they ate a big supper and now they’re sitting out on the porch and drinking .
maybe , the woman that ran the house would cook in the evenings .
” “this isn’t friendly .
he had often wondered what had become of him .
we don’t have to go into the time .
” “well , ” i said , “we’ve got it now .
saw a comic shooting in chicote’s during the war i could write about it just as though it had been
he was hungrier .
we got a carriage outside and rode up to the café .
she wasn’t a wicked woman at the start .
it is a little further down than where you are .
' ' well , think about what i told you and turn off on the first left side road you
but there were four _big_ bull tracks .
“he lives up at hirsch’s rooming-house , ” george said to nick .
" william campbell pulled up the right sleeve of his pyjama jacket under the sheet , then shoved the right
he was impressed by your name , madam , which i gave to impress him .
” “he shot a tri-moter junker down today over the jarama and his wingmen mucked off on him and he
i know where i can get four baits too .
sir .
my hair is twice as long as it has ever been and i look as though i were rising from
he had never been in minneapolis and believed he probably would never go there , but he knew what it
d ' you like it ?
" " go on , give us some beer .
' the other lick , the one i was at last night , is fool-proof except for being near that
there was nothing to do but go in .
a spring .
“want to go ?
i ' ll have it in my hand when i read the dante and do the other things .
” “i’ll draw them and then pack them in the bag with some ferns .
good hand .
“did the wind die down ?
i had seen in africa .
a while .
" " he ' s here in town , now .
who has any breeding , anyway , except the bulls ?
petersburg and tampa papers at the drugstore .
” “and if you’re not all right that would be fine for me , wouldn’t it ?
“but in the morning we’ll be out of it .
we had the papers and i read the account of the shanghai fighting aloud to guy .
plan , among some rocks .
" you could have read it .
pedro romero had the greatness .
nick did not see them at first .
” “my god , nous avons chanté .
” “no , ” he said proudly .
do you know a big swede named ole andreson ?
i brought her back to the san francisco dock , and there was eddy waiting on the dock for me
to a chair .
“le meilleur ?
on the porch of the concordia , where the rusty bobsleds were stacked , the young gentleman said , “was
" well , bill and i will go up right after lunch , " i said .
so i told kamau to speed it up and get it over with because a sudden burst of speed was
” the strange country miami was hot and muggy and the land wind that blew from the everglades brought mosquitoes
the three with the medals were like hunting-hawks ; and i was not a hawk , although i might seem
” walcott had been just hitting him for a long time .
it was the brusque changes that hurt , and he dreaded rising to his feet .
but it makes me feel very strange .
he’d insult him and make a good clean break .
we started and i waved to her .
" " you haven ' t drunk much of it , " i said .
" " isn ' t he ?
" " handle him like you handled kid lewis .
god , what bloody literary discussions we had ; we were literary as hell then just after the war ,
also you are jail-bait .
frenchman had done .
formerly we had the germans .
“he’ll probably be dead later on .
toward where , up in the dark boxes , the president must be .
" they ' re gone now .
" mike was opening a beer-bottle .
' ' cipriani is very intelligent .
" " you might as well bunk with me , jerry , " jack says .
" there ' s no necessity to use a word like that .
you get married and have five sons and call them all richard .
" " well , anyway , let ' s eat , " said bill .
well , it was a rotten way to be wounded and flying on a joke front like the italian .
' ' it is better not to hunt them at all .
” “let’s sit here a little while longer , ” he said .
' ' why don ' t we do that ?
hasn ' t he been pretty ?
" there was an upright piano in the far corner of the room beyond the wooden tables and bill went
his father finished and stood up .
" make an awful row .
“we want the bill , ” i said .
“well , he’s always been fine to me .
it was one of the most prolific and inspired periods of his writing career .
as a hospital patient .
finally , when we were moving , they started to run beside the car smiling and laughing and showing how
' ' we ' d have to take a few towns for them to respect our thinking .
” “you can go now , mr .
we smoothed the dust of the lick carefully with our feet so that any new tracks would show when we
these were on each side of the road and as we climbed in the car where the red road narrowed
i want so to be a saint .
speed that meant that he was racing the little nickeled death inside him .
blindy’s my name .
i couldn ' t do it .
outside the tent , and when francis macomber woke in the night to hear it he was afraid .
_num_ d soldier—just for two , george .
“well ?
i was tired out and slipping into bitterness fast .
like being in a vault .
” “they’re fine .
manuel shook it .
she went to hunt for a bottle .
we followed the tram-track into the center of town .
said , ' it is coming up in that hand-pulled device .
” “no , but i’m afraid he’s going to die .
wait till you see a white pine or a ponderosa pine .
' ' i think , perhaps , you exaggerate .
' ' come on , ' pop said .
i ' m all right .
perhaps i was only better armed .
he made a beautiful shot on that leopard , you know .
" madame asked .
he goes out through all that mob in his bathrobe to the dressing-room .
jack sat up and looked at us .
you know , they came in , but it was a man’s place and they didn’t have any status .
in the turtle boats i was in the cross-trees of the mast-head and even at that height i saw much
cypress and pine sawdust in the heat .
' and you look wonderful .
the colonel took out the emeralds from his pocket and looked at them , feeling them slide , cold and
“i’ll kill her , ” he said .
_ _num_ st soldier_--just one more .
we ate a lunch at jimmy hanley’s place .
bath .
i were checked .
cole porter wrote the words and the music .
did you ever run into scott fitzgerald ?
we were closer than that .
fisi .
but i think it is the best time to speak truly of them .
" " the little bugger , " nick said .
at their backs , and it shone on the camera lenses and made them blink like a helio and the
' let ' s see him , ' i said , cold in the pit of my stomach .
" " we wouldn ' t mind that , captain doctor .
' when the rain ?
strangeness of his flatness .
you rub onions in your eyes .
it pass .
the bird has no chance .
" the old man sitting in the shadow rapped on his saucer with his glass .
" " i have nominated a scientist from vevey and a colleague of mine from lauzanne and they were both
a boy and girl were at the other end .
' of course , ' he said bitterly .
harris stood in front of the post-office .
he is very thoughtful for us .
a ladder led up to the top of the wall , and people were climbing up the ladder and spreading
that it just hit the fence to fall inside .
liquor .
frankie came on board with me , and while we sat and waited for johnson i drank a couple of
you take a german rifle each and two packs of ammo and go up the road two hundred yards on
” “so would you be drunk , ” said the white woolly jacket man .
i was crazy .
seeing , quickly , the people that he passed .
look , jake , we ' ll come down the night of the _num_ th .
i like you .
“come on , roll , i’ve got you covered .
' the colonel asked ; for he was lonely , too .
it was then he knew that he should have been sent back to the shamba once he had put them
he may be half asleep himself , he thought .
but , then , nothing is easy .
" don ' t you know about that ?
' hapana elephants !
first you borrow .
" " should we take him ?
brett reached out and spread the fingers apart .
you don ' t deserve to have a mother .
" i ' m offering to put you on to-morrow night , " retana said .
" " how about eating ?
“pa was down into the road and back up again before i seen a thing .
smith kissed d .
the young gentleman paid five lire more .
in spite of the obvious importance of the paris years on hemingway’s development as a writer , few of his
now we go home to the hotel .
but it sounds awful .
have it here where it is quiet .
" " don ' t get sore , " the sergeant said .
] _num_ d roman soldier—jesus christ .
you can’t go to everyone .
they ' re scotsmen , i believe .
" pretty well , sometimes .
“i was going good , ” manuel said weakly .
“he’s good , ” zurito said .
” “dump this liquor , ” the man told him .
he knew .
" i asked .
' ' i brought a few cans to help out and a little stuff to give away .
have been bulls .
he stopped for a moment and looked back and saw in the reflection from the street light the great tail
” “oh , no , sir , ” she laughed .
” “i am an old client , too .
” i watched the road to the west beyond the estaminet while the cleaning up was going on .
i ' ve been out with the boys , but i never cared for it any .
" " here .
” “put some water in that , ” i said .
it doesn ' t matter who they lead .
“no sir , ” said captain willie .
" " i won ' t stand it , " bill said .
gray painted cages with the bulls in them .
' chapter xii they were at their table in the far corner of the bar , where the colonel had
then too , in reality , i am a king here .
' nyati , ' m ' cola whispered .
then i saw she was crying .
" he ' s found fish , " he said aloud .
it is impressive .
” “without sugar .
” “i don’t want to move , ” the man said .
“we’re going in the big town after the column overruns us .
' do you want to trade ?
he regretted this as he regretted all his errors .
" where should i have him put it , sir ?
“there was a boy from my province who became frightened during the bombardment , and he shot himself in the
kneeling to shoot and wanting to tell her to sit down and make sure of him .
” “they only started to eat at ten , ” said the other waiter .
he smiled .
there he is .
maybe they ' d lost the rudder though .
“i hate to start them again , ” nick said .
she had a really pretty voice .
" who ' s out in the kitchen ?
“give him fifty pesos from the cash box , ” he told me .
" this is the first time i have been divorced .
“have you ever swum in a sea where it was phosphorescent , carl ?
bull went by the car headed toward the salt .
you don ' t have to be afraid .
farm house or the lodge , i suppose that i should call it .
he and peduzzi started down the road .
' m ' cola put the springfield in my hand and i opened it to make sure i had solids
" i ' ve never seen one , " the man drank his beer .
had overcome it by adding on to the heel .
mcgraw .
just ticking .
it’s better not to think about the others , ” he said .
the major held the photograph with his good hand and looked at it very carefully .
" she said .
there were usually funerals starting from the courtyard .
" " oh , he ' d have gotten used to that .
" it was a accident .
' ' it ' s saturday , ' the colonel said .
’” “get off my lap , ” nick said .
i would be very happy to meet your father .
_ _num_ st soldier_--it was the least i could do for him .
the kind of a girl you want is the kind of a girl that’ll jig you because she can’t help
i said , “grüss gott , ” to the priest as he walked past us coming out of the churchyard
the only trouble was that people who did not fall into any of those three categories were very liable to
" " eat some more salad , " fontan said .
i could not remember who burned the things even , and i would go on until i came to people
" " no , john , i don ' t think so .
" " i don ' t know , " i said .
" " anyway i should say he was eighty .
that’s the fifteenth of september .
' no luck ?
” “no , hombre , only to make a joke .
" retana watched him smoking .
' pop told the masai something and we shook hands again , parting on a most excellent basis .
magazine of the springfield , took off the foresight protector and blew through the rear aperture .
the best if you do not become bigoted because every one speaks the same language .
let ' s give everyone the benefit of the doubt .
' he ' ll cross the stream , ' pop said .
take m ' cola , kamau and these two .
" you ' re an expatriate .
' but he was about three years older .
he himself could not read , he had clippings which said that in his debut in madrid he had been
are you still slaving away at _la vie militaire_ ?
then some stragglers who were really running .
it , cape and all , free from the neck , the cape hanging heavy and wet in the light
it would depend on how they were loaded and whether there were women in the car because the blind man
he had another gin and tonic in front of him and everyone at the table was laughing at something he
had such good reading too and he thanked his father for not pushing him too hard on the writing because
so i made him get rid of her , and he had brought her to provincetown from carmel when he
they brought people for the bull-fight .
“i am of no party , ” the waiter said .
" " we are germans , " i said proudly , " old south germans .
" " that ' s because you never read a book about it .
around their necks , and carried a great banner on two poles .
" i ' m going to have a drink .
” when he was satisfied with his hands he went in and went to work .
we’d been out quite a way and now we were coming back .
anything , except to hold an indefensible position ; or intelligently direct his own part in an attack ; to
' ' nothing better than drinking .
" " i thought you said you didn ' t see them .
” “i guess i mixed it up with muffled oars .
” the swiss got up and paid and went out .
i rang the bell .
we want to leave plenty of time for them .
i ain’t paid to get shot .
it was forwarded from pamplona .
of the ocean but it was to eddy’s cooking of the same things as old re-used grease is to fresh
“how much water have we got at the stern ?
" " we will come one night with music ?
it ' s like the atomic bomb , only played backwards .
” “we’re pretty lucky don’t you think ?
“no , i wouldn’t let you take the chance .
” “you talk too much , all the same , ” al said .
but i knew something big was up because george is kzar’s jockey .
“it’s very strange , ” the girl said .
(there were still storks in the trees and we saw some grant ' s gazelles feeding off to the right
” asked my wife .
i wish it had really been a dream , he thought .
i haven ' t thought about him for a week .
chinese hairs at the corners of his mouth .
its porch you could see the sea , very blue , at the end of the street .
' ' just a touch .
” “i’ve crossed it up above and it’s beautiful wherever you cross it .
does anybody know the password for tonight ?
" cohn asked .
” “sí , hombre , sí .
“he’s in good shape , ” zurito said .
i sat down in the washroom and waited and he went down the aisle .
it was cool .
' ' it ' s riding in the damned cars that ruins us .
” he went up and i saw him shadowed against the dark .
it means nothing to me and it was not a criticism .
looked at the terrace where the tables were all empty except where the old man sat in the shadow of
swept up from her neck and swung to one side , her lovely brown face , the eyes and the
" " want to go for a ride ?
" we walked across the square .
but my god she was big .
” “everything he says must be used against him , ” said the other prisoner .
stephen brat-gilch .
' ' yes , ' said arnaldo .
' ' the uffizi ?
but you never saw a fellow more loyal nor with a better heart .
while i was sitting there the concierge came out with a blue envelope in his hand .
' pop asked gently .
or really know why .
” “i don’t have it my own way .
' ' i wanted to hear it from you yourself and to congratulate you .
she did not look back at him .
glades and meadows above the timber .
he was an old man with a bald head and very old-fashioned manners which the war had not changed .
" the innkeeper asked .
' please don ' t be rude , ' the girl said .
she was worried .
" yes , we must .
” “i am happy , ” said the waiter .
here to start again .
that was really much better .
he didn ' t want to be knocked out .
no trouble .
she was practical .
" if the others heard me talking out loud they would think that i am crazy , " he said
" never ?
” “sande booted three of them in yesterday .
brett had the ear in her hand .
' ' the reason everyone now tries to avoid it , to deny that it is important , to make
but we had all the wehrmacht stamped martell and some people had as much as six million german-printed french francs
the marlin , trying to rest and to be strong , when he saw the first of the two sharks
other like a fresh cased marten skin .
hemingway must have been one of the most perceptive travelers in the history of literature , and his stories taken
we had a hell of a time to get in and the night we got there , just before dark
" i like a cigar to really draw , " said the count " half the cigars you smoke don
bad luck .
' ' no , ' pop said .
someone at the camp shouted back one word .
ideas and conversation are very interesting .
i went back to the washroom and went in very carefully so as not to wake the porter and sat
colonel thought : checked out , eh ?
all right , he said .
" it ' s pretty good , " i said .
" " did the typewriter put you to sleep ?
he ' d go inside the neckband , down the back , around and under one arm , make for
“i love you so , wemedge .
any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons , living or dead , is entirely coincidental .
that leveled a piece of ground large enough to sleep on .
” “i saw the difference .
it’s in the spring .
the boatman had finished putting out the decoys .
cayetano ' s better too .
straight across the top of the head , he thought .
' ' there is one green-head drake in the bag who is only wing-tipped .
after all , i gut-shot the son of a bitch .
“there isn’t anything we can do now to help , is there ?
' i had to make a decision about that , as about the other different things .
lousy pics !
the first thing a pane of glass went and the bullet smashed into the row of bottles on the showcase
that would seem to be luck .
' ' is the muehlebach very splendid ?
” i told him .
' i know it .
“wollen sie trinken ?
with him again—i did not come in close contact with him at any time since his return from china .
he don’t like many people .
" but you speak italian .
“what i just told you , and if you ever open your mouth about last night i’ll hear of it
” madame asked .
“henry ford put them out of business when he published the protocols of the elders of zion .
as he neared the bottom it was quite cold .
" " that was bright .
not until after the war when we could talk together .
“well , ” i said to frankie , “we might as well have a cold one .
" fuentes , " the gypsy said .
i could see the morro light way down to the westward and the glow of havana , and the lights
' everything .
heavy hair is not a life for a woman , or even a girl alone , who loves someone .
one of them was the man who shot him .
i have lived with it nearly all my life and the dispensing of it has been my trade .
m ' cola became very superior during droopy ' s struggle to fire with the safety on and droopy seemed
” “yes , comrade .
i guess somewhere inside of himself he was angry , very angry .
' i ' m ahead of you , ' the colonel said .
i went to the basement and brought a rake and my father raked very carefully in the ashes .
manuel , standing in the hallway , felt there was someone in the room .
the rhone valley from fishing the stockalper with the horse chestnut trees in bloom , and chink and i again
ever known , going back to the earliest thing you remember—which was , with me , the attic of the
" i ' d better go , " she said .
shout and blew the klaxon and i let the gun off , the flame cutting up into the dark and
" " i can ' t , " manuel said .
he found he had a ham sandwich in his hand and put it in his pocket .
” george looked at the clock on the wall behind the counter .
“just that one ?
" oh , don ' t be fresh , " she said .
i gave him three more drinks to keep him brave before it was half past ten .
“we have night lighting here now , ” his father said .
but he said , “i wouldn’t think about that any more .
now chief of staff .
" they ' ve paid for him .
" well , let ' s talk about something else .
ayee he was tired .
” “i suppose i should send some word to the consulate .
there wasn’t ever anything like it for me .
“come here , kid , ” he said .
” the two health-farm patients ate at the same table with us .
his sister was sitting on the moss beside him and she had her arm around his shoulders .
i could taste the snow water we had been drinking melted off the tin roof of the hut .
if you want the portrait to-night , i must speak to the butler to have it wrapped and sent .
like plummets and , on the others , he had a big blue runner and a yellow jack that had
" " you can take the gun .
felt his anger rise , and then held it , and said , ' can i help you in the
as a tribute to the great commoner .
' ' you ' ve plenty of petrol and we ' ll leave some here , ' pop called .
but we haven’t got it yet and i haven’t asked .
couldn’t i read to you ?
the good ones came each year .
i always wanted one .
with this walking .
but when i felt the arm go i dropped it .
but you ' re not a young writer .
' we saw the moon come up , smoky red over the brown hills , and we came down through
i ' ve been right over ninety-five per cent of the time and that ' s a hell of a
george was coming down in telemark position , kneeling ; one leg forward and bent , the other trailing ;
” the other porter shook his head .
' karl drew the short one .
“but why the sirens ?
did she have a fourth dimension ?
” the clerk says .
‘my old man’s jack brennan .
" " he wasn ' t so tight .
no one truly ; which was understandable in cold people from a border province .
“what does it matter if he gets what he’s after ?
get up ?
i felt it was perfectly fair to pop to take it on as long as i had a chance to
he carefully picked up all the apricots off the floor , some of them had gone under the stove ,
' no good , ' m ' cola said .
“you do something awfully good to me .
' there ' s no comparison , of course , ' he said .
“i hit him , ” macomber said .
she took great pride in telling me which of my guests were well brought up , which were of good
“knock on that , ” he said , pointing to the barrera .
then the bull came out in a rush , skidding on his four legs as he came out under the
if you have so much of that , use it in the ring .
come on and eat with us , and we ' ll all go to meet him .
he stood up when i nodded , and asked me to come over and meet a friend .
” chapter iii we were in a garden at mons .
” “i don’t want to make you trouble .
the blade was solidly in place all across his fist , the edge out .
“could i speak to you a minute ?
no , it wasn’t porter .
” she shook her head , her face contorted .
' ' that i can understand .
his daughter ?
“you must not get wet , ” she smiled , speaking italian .
means the old boy has left his kill .
simple exchange of values .
' ' don ' t we have fun with food ?
a day ' s wait he came into the room to shut the windows while we were still in bed
“one at a time , ” i said .
i won’t listen .
he used all the batter .
dit pas bonjour aux nouveaux camarades ?
baggage .
all i could think was : the fool .
” “he must be eighty years old .
" you see in me quite a different man .
no one will trouble us .
of them drank the whisky and it was what they needed and made them feel much better .
the girls at the cova were very patriotic , and i found that the most patriotic people in italy were
that’s why she’s here .
" now i must prepare the nooses and the rope to lash him alongside , he thought .
' have a whisky and soda , karl , ' p .
" tell me some more .
there was an impalla on it looking very red where the sun struck his hide in the patches between the
' he ' s got blood , ' pop said .
” he poured out another drink .
' i ' d rather have him beat me .
i ' ll settle for what i have , he thought , and they can go and hang themselves .
' ' the hell with it , ' the colonel said .
" this is mr .
wheeler looked out the window at the snow falling in the light from the station platform .
” “they hate mr .
your wife sews your pockets up every morning .
yes , quite .
that crazy at the lunch counter and a ham and egg sandwich on rye .
in the water as he turned to come up to the air nick thought , gosh , if i could
' bull down there , ' i pointed .
” helena wrote helena hancock on the first page in the rather flamboyant untypical hand that had emerged form the
” “i couldn’t tell what was missing from the woodshed .
he was , but suddenly it confused without reason as now , he lying in a bunk at battalion headquarters
man is not much beside the great birds and beasts .
there isn ' t any use my telling you i love you .
' you see , i thought that if you slept you might get rid of them , just being asleep
“i heard they’d cut your leg off , ” retana said .
as always , he thought .
but perhaps he wouldn’t .
" what kind of a hand is that , " he said .
good tip when the saucers were counted up .
johnson took the harness off the reel so he could put the rod across his knees because his arms got
he read many books , played bridge , played tennis , and boxed at a local gymnasium .
makes a fool of himself and he sits there perfectly content drinking with a rummy .
" " thaats good .
" about his future you can ' t ever tell .
plastiras is a very good man i believe , he said , but frightfully dif icult .
the big native dance festivals .
he knew it could not be more than a mile .
' can you tell me anything about the war ?
” “we’re through with your mermaid .
" " well , " i said , " we ' ve got it now .
” “everybody’s happy , baldy .
they met there in vevey .
this is a hell of a climate on wine .
” “just the ribbons and the papers .
" all right , weigh _him_ then , " jack jerked his head toward walcott .
” “i can’t .
on a rocky , bare-assed hill .
” “and yesterday afternoon he just went out on the town to cheer things up , ” i suggested .
if you get in trouble call me up .
but it sure interests them .
" " tell me about it .
' your grappa is very , very good .
i rather think so , you know .
" the free turkey at woolf ' s , " i answered .
" the doctor ' s assistant put the cone over manuel ' s face and he inhaled deeply .
” “that’s the way to talk , ” mrs .
then we went into a left echelon of echelons and dove onto them with all four guns until you could
c’est bon , la bière .
i turned around .
i know the place very well .
one hundred and twenty-five fathoms .
writers should work alone .
i refuse to repeat it .
, and into a dusty turn-off that led into a deeply rutted , dust-filled track through bushes to the shade
side of the mountain , hoping to see a rhino in the open glades .
' ' that would be sacrilegious .
i ' d like to talk with him and with ernst udet .
a naturalist , to obtain accuracy of observation , may confine himself in his observations to one limited period and
' it was awfully pretty , ' p .
he wouldn’t go to confession to father but he promised to say his prayers , and not a mexican had
the gypsy was walking out toward the bull again , walking heel-and-toe , insultingly , like a ballroom dancer ,
i wish to christ he hadn ' t got any kind of malady .
the harpoon and gaff and the old man carried the mast with the furled sail on his shoulder .
batting eyes !
' ' i forgot , ' the colonel said .
' you ' re in good shape , colonel , sir .
' ' nothing ?
but it was no worse than getting up at the hours that they rose and it was very good against
it was like normandy only flatter .
he went out through the bead curtain .
" " he ' ll lose it , " the major said .
night as plain as the hill , only it frightened him .
" it can ' t be this cold to-morrow .
hard and cold and lovely .
to meet , there when juma and his father and he were heroes and kibo was a hero’s dog and
call garrick .
" " what bad luck .
“you see in me quite a different man .
" alone in the centre of the ring the bull stood , still fixed .
great chandelier and the view , through the still closed windows , on to the wind-beaten water of the grand
“but first i must have more champagne wine .
must have spooked off .
“well , ” i said , “they drowned shelley somewhere along here .
“are you hungry ?
she was good-looking and they seemed very sad .
the stream and up the bank and i took off my shoes and waded across the stream to test it
s , and you can telephone for someone from the gritti to get your bags .
they were beautiful fish , too , firm and hard and he gutted the three fish and tossed the guts
he went over and took a drink of water .
” “of course , ” she said .
then picked some ferns and packed them all in the bag , three trout on a layer of ferns ,
” “you’re a funny girl .
says .
' excuse me , jackson .
the crowd wanted him .
" " you are sure of this ?
' tell cipriani i will send him a cheque for it .
my god , i don ' t understand _that_ !
looking back , the mountains looked very fine and with timber up their slopes , outcroppings of limestone and open
the old man stood up , slowly counted the saucers , took a leather coin purse from his pocket and
“how skunk-drunk were you ?
when once , through my treachery , it had been necessary to him to make a choice , the old
“do you know how long i would go to jail if they pick me up on this ?
a fatal mistake .
“come and turn this damned thing off .
“oh , ” i said , “i’ll sleep down at my brother-in-law’s .
' after he was gone , pop said : ' i wouldn ' t believe all that about the aga
' and furthermore he can take the sleigh .
that it was us , the three he knew so well , who were going to attack .
i still thought he might be out on a time or he might be there at the hotel feeling too
find the air of the valley drifting with flying locusts and karl already in camp with his kudu .
you may think a rabbit moves fast when it first jumps and starts zig-zagging away , but the authority moved
" some day somebody will push your face in .
all these people pretended to understand them , as did the boys with the pointers , a sort of half-arsed
" he ' d have knocked you out , too .
" " oh , well , " i said , " let ' s go to senlis .
macomber looked at wilson quickly .
her hands in the bucket , finally caught a perch , cut its head off and skinned it .
through and that now i must go through again .
' ' your hurt hand ?
' ' please , ' the clerk said .
it is passing .
, sloshed myself with fresh water , and rubbed dry .
" they ' re horns all right .
sweater and her eyes in the wind and he said , ' yes , i like it .
” “who’s we ?
the number of the round .
" he ' s a giraffe , " the short waiter said .
george was inside , back of the counter .
” “it’s really cold .
don’t you know that’s against the law ?
he loves to joke but he does not lie .
a country was made to be as we found it .
hogan had his two customers out in the barn doing exercises .
” “no , we can’t .
hogan was inside at the office .
” “i left them in the wagon at garner’s .
" " doesn ' t it mean anything to you ?
don ' t worry , boy .
" " i like the beer in cans best .
that had been a fine hunt .
" " what did i say about betting on the fight ?
“don’t get huffy , doc , ” said dick .
what ' s a man ' s life worth anyway ?
" weigh _him_ , " jack says .
' at your age if you can ' t sleep they ought to take you out and hang you .
' fish is not compulsory .
the crossroads to pick up the lorries and head to the east into the new country .
had better go to harry ' s .
” “it’s fine , ” nick said .
no end to ' em .
' i ' m sorry about things .
makes you liverish .
chapter xxvi they sat there at the table and watched the early stormy light over the canal .
“you bet your life he is , ” bill said .
" " come and have a drink , then , before you bathe .
so i sculled back to the boat and got a wrench and lashed it to the end of the grains
” “of course .
" she knows , " jack said .
" no , " said bill .
' good and bad .
wherever it is you come from .
” “we’ll get another new one .
' doumi , ' garrick said and threw back his head and spread his arms wide to show horns that
they never could be true unless he said them .
“i want you rum-brave .
then he saw them at the bottom of the pool , big trout looking to hold themselves on the gravel
they called hop’s girl the blonde venus .
you on any of the parties .
we got out past the reef and i looked back once and saw the beach and the mountains starting to
jack started to pour me another .
the boy was watching him all the time but he could not talk .
he didn’t know what to do either .
him into the thick cover .
he ' s just like he always was .
the coffee was bitter .
his eye is huge and a horse , with much less eye , can see in the dark .
out over three hundred fathoms of line .
surely not .
_num_ shorts in the rifle for the long-rifles .
but the nearest port hole was twelve feet down .
i looked back as mike stumbled up the stairs and saw cohn putting his glasses on again .
“it was thick and smooth .
" he ' s pretty bad , " i said .
' ' listen .
the tanks get smacked even as fast as they could move and they could move fast both ways .
" " well , i wish you wouldn ' t ride me about it , " doctor wilcox said .
but he was not black and i felt there was something wrong .
' ' well you know now .
help me , chucho .
" i have the gaff now , " he said .
there—he’s singing now .
" " oui , j ' aime la bière , mais fontan , il est crazy pour le vin .
” “luck , ” i said .
” he handed her one of the papers .
go on back .
" " i told you he was one of us .
” “here’s how , d .
along the point-dipping blade at the place in the top of the shoulders where it was dusty in the short-haired
“chance of it , ” wilson said and smiled at her .
' ' bring them all and we ' ll look at them , ' the colonel said .
finally it was dark and we went back to camp .
there was a big bump coming up .
rot and poetry .
” “to stay a little while is nice .
he was in the dead angle behind the apse of the ancient church and as they passed , he ,
so , as a soldier , i am prepared to fight them .
" to laugh at .
we sat down in a seat , my father inside next to the window .
" " what is the oldest brandy you have ?
but not much money was bet and he had won it quite easily since he had broken the confidence of
" " maybe the boy meant it for a joke , max , " al said .
_] no , come on .
to really gamble .
" i was going great till i got hurt , " manuel offered .
as we went out the door i looked back and there were three girls at his table .
told .
he might know .
the bicycle-riders drank much wine , and were burned and browned by the sun .
looked at the painted interior once to please the friend and that after that i had only used the box
* * * * * we got in early in the afternoon from the shooting-trip .
odgar with that fried-fish look in his eye every time he looked at kate .
” “how lonesome have you ever been ?
we went up a steep bank and across the rolling fields .
the american lady put herself in charge of one of three men from cook ' s who said : "
pedro , who has done this to thee , pedro ?
" oh , yes .
' i told it again .
do they have the camps there too ?
” “no , littless .
we were walking across the square to the suizo .
' ' the good ones , yes .
' the _gran maestro_ came then with the steak and the scaloppine and the vegetables .
nigger put up his glove .
” then , as an afterthought , he glanced at macomber and saw suddenly how he was trembling and the
“no , ” said doc fischer .
" whew !
is pass one group of three and i say to company , ‘see ?
he’s on the defensive now , manuel thought .
" that ' s what makes the trouble .
finer , further , finer higher and higher to drive toward happiness suddenly , scaldingly achieved .
bottle behind two wicker jugs full of water .
it is a rank very close to that of captain , the colonel thought .
he is dead , as i said .
" " i ' m so sorry , " mike said .
i read when i ' m at home .
and you’re getting strong .
' ' please let ' s skip it .
” the down-state man said .
' it ' s awfully good meat , ' pop whispered .
screaming , ' b ' wana !
ahead and let me see you .
touraine had not turned out the way it looked when it started .
the little man lay there , his face in the grass .
whoever gets his first can go on down after oryx .
the only person i really cared about , except the children , was with me , and i had no
how many could you tell like that ?
the breeze high in the tops and the cool light that came in patches , and billy said : "
he’s got a lot of dope on it .
the open , if he comes now i must be quiet inside and put it down his nose as he
it simply occupied space .
” “do that then .
between us was scattered open timber full of sunlight and the openness of the gulch .
“shoot him in the earhole with the three oh three , ” his father said .
he felt like reading .
but i try to be useful with one hand .
the gypsy came running along the barrera toward manuel , taking the applause of the crowd .
“have you any solids left ?
" is it still raining ?
he was the one who had mr .
” “you have ever been in love ?
" i ' ll fight them until i die .
you have only yourself and you had better work back to the last line now , in the dark or
we lay offshore about a mile in the dark .
” “really ?
do love each other .
” “but he drove us back from getting the berries without him even being here .
” “is he good ?
them toward the opposite bank , but could not see what was making the movement .
there was some talk by the natives , then pop said : ' one of these sportsmen claims he was
' come on , ' said pop .
a porter carried bill ' s bags in from the consigne .
' you ' re god-damned right it ' s bad , ' the driver said and added , ' sir
" what ' s in it ?
we were all very moved .
it was shaking too .
” “‘if an angel out of heaven gives you something else to drink .
i enjoy to watch you dance .
" " why not ?
“i don’t want to look over your shoulder or breathe down your neck , ” his father said .
" oh , no , " said edna .
” the two cameramen were making grimaces and shaking their clenched fists over their heads in fury .
" " on a mangé , on a bu du vin , de la bière , et il y avait
and if i become sleepy i have the right to be sleepy .
” “not as far as i know .
her courage was so automatic and so much a simple state of being that she never thought of danger ;
' ' just something picturesque .
maybe i never did know .
nobody seemed to know what to do or whether to look after the sergeant or try and find the little
' ' that ' s very good , ' i said .
“as long as mcgraw can buy every good ball player in the league there’s nothing to it .
" what do you have to eat ?
on the far bank of this stream at the edge of the dried lake bed .
that makes them three francs something apiece , johnson thought .
it was a grey , overcast morning and cold .
” “got to finish off that buff first , ” wilson told him .
he was smiling that funny deaf smile .
“hello you old lice .
“i’ll kill you as soon as i can see .
we went inside the station and stood with a crowd of people just back of the gates , and the
his hand was very fine and the wrist was small .
" the veteran manolo designed a series of acceptable veronicas , ending in a very belmontistic recorte that earned applause
then i was out in the hot sun on the steps of the cathedral , and the forefingers and the
he was in bed when the manager of the burlesque troupe came into his room and after the manager had
plenty bad luck .
romero took it very seriously , and we touched glasses and drank it down , i rushing it a little
" he is poorer than we , " said the little mexican .
” “fifty lire .
” i didn’t want to tell him too far ahead because he would get to worrying and get so spooked
" " books are all right , " fontan said .
" i ' ve got to have one good pic , " manuel said .
he’d hit jack .
” he was sitting on the bed now with a large water glass of champagne in his hand and his
you must have it .
manuel went up to him .
they were waiting for the wickets to open in the morning to buy tickets for the bull-fight .
” “married ?
” the boy asked .
for him the spectacle of a man pitted against a wild bull was a tragedy rather than a sport .
' there was no sign that she heard it , so he tired of it .
her , and of course in a little while i felt like hell again .
“they couldn’t .
there was much game hanging outside the shops , and the snow powdered in the fur of the foxes and
' ' i ' m driving now .
" i ' ll give you two hundred francs , " he said .
' it was frozen-up at our post , ' the colonel said .
' giorgio , ' he said to the pale-faced barman .
it ' s like hearing a horn in the woods .
where he stepped in , the water was over his knees .
in english .
" his voice broke .
' ' i ' ll be there in twenty minutes if you want me .
" " black beans and rice , fried bananas , and some stew .
' how much do i owe you ?
" i sat down and opened the _pirate_ book and commenced to read , but i could see he was
i think things out for myself .
you do not want music .
we planned to lay up in the heat of the middle of the day and not get back until dark
there was some gulfweed on the stream and a few birds working , but not many .
it doesn ' t do any good .
said , ' i can ' t remember it .
” “yes sir .
all the rest is cabbage , as my old friend dr .
that and the fact there are no vistas .
" " say it to me .
they never built any better than at the start there in torcello .
” fontan asked .
“just take it easy .
i drank a coffee and after a while bill came over .
here’s where you go back from if you want to go back .
” he had seen a buggy coming down the road .
” he screwed down on the drag .
' shut up , you , ' m ' cola told him .
they were all perched heavily in a tree .
“sure , ” she said .
” “have you got any more beer ?
" the critic asked me .
in this manner they would detect one which had been fired recently .
the warriors ran with us for a good way but we had to make time , the going was good
i realized that right away .
" so what happened ?
after he judged that his right hand had been in the water long enough he took it out and looked
' ' i have no patience with it .
he seemed very angry .
“there’s no use getting drunk .
“it’s a hell of a lot better word than perhaps .
but won’t you be awfully bored with me ?
' that was the last thing the colonel ever said .
being hunted , the game had learned to come only at night and leave before daylight .
” we were through the town and out on the smooth road beyond , with the stubble of grain-fields on
" zurito set down his glass .
but i never wore a bow tie in my life and i am not , nor ever have been ,
the dishes that were presented at the table .
we saw the four of them climbing together up the gap , and we saw pace’s hands were not tied
” “we can cook if you’re hungry .
everything .
it all , the whole thing as it would happen from the shock of the bullet to the end of
' ' a plantation , ' he said .
” “does the evans boy know ?
' ' go on , please .
i love you very much .
' a difficult manoeuvre , ' ettore said .
, was the presence and , even more disturbing , the occasional absence of this long hair .
it was firm and juicy , like meat , but it was not red .
" i ' ll go get some , " he said .
the _gran maestro_ was festive and well with the morning .
tom reached over and took the glass off the free-lunch bowl .
of the light , dry , red wine which was as friendly as the house of your brother , if
“these peasants are beasts .
i have nothing against them if they use them right even if they kill you .
you aren’t funny .
' there is grappa there on the table .
what was it happened with you and your wife , if i may ask ?
but again the fish righted himself and swam slowly away .
it was possible on this road on that stretch that now lay ahead where the canal ran clear and flowing
” “perhaps then he is on our side now , too .
we had several drives and shot pheasants and i shot a chevreuil .
lake pink .
” “you aren’t treating me square , ” he said .
huh , torito !
doctor wilcox , my colleague , was on call and he was unable to find this emergency listed in his
i looked at him , big , long-legged , a smooth grey with the white stripes and the great curling
but they have read the critics and they must write masterpieces .
and i ' ve had them get them the first half day .
krebs took down the paper and folded it .
there were so many good-looking young girls .
” “oh , to hell with the clock , ” the first man said .
don ' t sit there looking like a bloody funeral .
i left the crowd in the café and went over to the hotel to get shaved for dinner .
“i want to go to cadillac , ” the cook said .
this time i ' ll pull him over .
" it will be dark soon , " he said .
eddy would mouth about it sooner or later , maybe , but who believes a rummy ?
” “i see , ” i said .
“monsieur n’a que trente-cinq ans .
or looking at him .
he could see the hopper in the little waves of the current .
” “books are all right , ” fontan said .
the low tide .
i ran down the stand and bumped into a jam of people and got to the rail and a cop
we are devotees of the pictorial arts .
” peroxide asked , complacently .
i went across the aisle and looked out the window .
by god , he was a man .
" " a man was killed outside in the runway .
“i’d love to , ” helena said .
roger kept on reading his paper so helena propped hers against a water glass and read too .
“olé !
the hook was bent and he straightened it .
he jumped from the car sideways onto the hard wind-board , made a jump turn and crouching and trailing his
” “he’s missed a lot , ” nick said sadly .
i do not know , the old man thought .
ran through it , wild guinea fowl used to come and roost in the evening .
” “good night , my dear roger .
" " good night , darling .
” “porter .
" " no , " ole andreson said .
by , looking ahead a little all the time .
i offered to put the dekes out with him .
he reached in the inside pocket of his coat and brought out a razor .
“i’ll just be gone a few minutes .
across the world in distant australia , the english cricketers were sharpening up their wickets .
we lived together at san sebastian .
" don ' t come .
he’s through .
“he’s a silly piece of work , ” al said .
it was simple and you were friends .
very rough trade , he thought .
all engines dislike me .
c ' est le truck de charley .
" we smoked skilfully in the dark .
sale out in front of turner’s stables of everything we couldn’t get into a trunk and a suit case .
' i said , full of sarcasm and disgust to garrick and made a gesture of giant horns flowing back
then , speaking confidently , to the detective , “he don’t know who shot him .
can we not hope to furnish the reader with a few rational and interesting facts about the dead ?
” “you’d never know it except from the way his face is , ” the woman said .
he poured an inch and a half of white horse into one of the enameled cups , unscrewed the top
it was difficult in the dark and once the fish made a surge that pulled him down on his face
” the secretary eyed the iron pipe .
" i asked bill and robert .
i heard the bullet smack and watched the oryx circle out away from the others , the circle quickening ,
gone .
” nick went back into the timber and buried the carton of .
' here ' s to royalty .
“do you want to tell him ?
“i don’t love anybody , ” krebs said .
" they ' ve painted something on it , " she said .
and when i asked her that she said , ‘oh how can you say that ?
there was a girl there in the dark , holding a basket .
discussion of the situation and in no sense a council of war , as you have so often pointed out
“he’s —”— , he said impressively .
” “you won’t be comfortable , ” nick said .
he was sitting down looking at something .
" i let you carry things when you were five years old .
and that was why we got smacked one time .
the negro who wore the narrow-brimmed flat-topped straw hat was gone .
it was inside his identity book .
' ' but you are not working now .
" this thing i ' m on barely keeps me off the ground , " the first picador said .
' ' of course .
it don ' t do my girls any good .
send carl up to the house , will you ?
we could have a great trip .
' ' but it was all luck .
" he looked at manuel , leaning back behind the big desk .
" " the hell with you talking that way , " doctor wilcox said .
he could not hear his voice .
so the cape swung out like a ballet dancer’s skirt and wound the bull around himself like a belt ,
” “i suppose you were in a convent ?
he shot it and there was no front compartment and then they went in after what would be left of
” the detective hit him again and then again and he was quiet .
“listen , ” i said .
i didn’t like to see him hold the rod that way but i hated to be crabbing at him all
and would do exactly what he wished .
with the old man from maisons and he always sat at the café de la paix on the opera side
" it ' s all right , " jack says .
they knew about the other boys who put the big ten-centime pieces under their arm-pits to produce jaundice .
you’ve only got one , baldy .
then the next day when we were loading the equipment into a car in front of the hotel i got
he had expected to compete with marcial and the other stars of the decadence of bull-fighting , and he knew
“you don’t have to laugh at all , see ?
we ourselves all understood the cova , where it was rich and warm and not too brightly lighted , and
' she said to the colonel , seriously .
you can see it .
i ' ll send you better from our own estates .
we said good-bye until the next morning .
added , ' in spades .
money here to western union .
“your number’s dirty .
" we heard the door unlock .
' ' right up the nose , ' i said .
” “he’s an old man , ” said the doctor to his secretary .
there was no town , nothing but the rails and the burnedover country .
' tell him he can always find me around harry ' s new york bar , ' i said .
' n ' dio , ' he says , watching them .
chapter xx the colonel stopped at the reception desk in the lobby , but the concierge was not there yet
” “you are a worthless liar and the son of a griffon , ” the wickedest of all the lionesses
” said krebs .
or go to church .
they always picked the finest places to have the quarrels .
she feels so lovely and i love her so much and have done her so much damage and i must
_ ' they sang the lion dance with that deep , lion asthmatic cough in it .
they talked plenty of money , anyway , and they spoke the kind of english cubans with money speak .
” “no tell me .
" ah ha , " the third porter said .
' i ' m not an hysterical .
holding him by the ears i handed him back .
into one of the steers .
the bull ' s legs tightened .
above all don ' t be sad because he is going now .
” the negro asked .
" " we ' ll be back , " tommy said .
do not think that i am very much impressed by that as a boxing title , but it meant a
close beside the boat a big trout broke the surface of the water .
' it will be a used engine .
“when do you want to settle up , mr .
” he put on his cap .
i’m clean and you know it and men like me , even though i’m big , and you know it
" " they are dirty .
' i can smell them close as hell , ' i whispered to pop .
they must have opened the tanks as soon as she struck and the minute she settled on it the quicksands
big track , anyway .
they got their money ' s worth in the wine-shops .
breakfast ?
the turkey brown-bronze and lovely as he stepped onto the road , stepping high-headed , then crouching to run ,
“won’t you have a kirsch with me ?
ecstasy and stroking the kudu ' s muzzle and his mane .
” “are they yours ?
all right , then , they could all be bulls , but i wanted a good one , the best
man , came a wild shouting .
manuel profiled toward the bull , sighting along the dipping blade of the sword .
' ' concussions .
there aren ' t any more men like steve ketchel .
attack on perticara and asalone and he had never written a word of that .
the people who fought on luck are all gloriously dead like napoleon ' s horse cavalry .
’ i said , ‘couldn’t you just have said something or couldn’t somebody just have said something ?
' ' i am not , really .
" " to quiet down the bulls and keep them from breaking horns against the stone walls , or goring
“we call anything a bugger , ” nick said .
i walked across the avenue and turned in to my office .
he gave you a certain feeling that he did .
” “you don’t shoot them from cars , ” he heard wilson saying in his ear .
the man looked to be alone .
" we thanked him .
just when the sun made the water blinding in the glare before it went down , you were liable to
i went up to the perla and met the broker and he gave me the papers and i bought him
, is all cleaned up by nine o’clock in the morning .
then he stepped the mast and , with the stick that was his gaff and with his boom rigged ,
, waxen yellow , from his dead-man ' s face in which his eyes were alive as a hawk '
we said good-bye to the roman and started out of the thorn-bush fence just as the sun came through the
no house .
" let no one disturb him .
he lived upstairs above the blacksmith shop and took his meals at d .
there are two schools of thought on that .
” “we’ll have it tomorrow morning .
is that why you ended up doing what you’re doing ?
he was very wealthy , and would be much wealthier , and he knew she would not leave him ever
“we’re going to do a little job , ” i said .
bad , but the good would get out .
steers run around like old maids trying to quiet them down .
” “i hate that red-faced swine , ” macomber said .
” robert wilson , whose entire occupation had been with the lion and the problem he presented , and who
i watched the little prisoner eating and he , without seeming to do it purposefully , made it very uncomfortable
” “do you want to hear about what it’s like outside ?
he looked at the names .
i never play games , even .
“don’t get huffy .
even if i sleep twenty minutes or a half an hour it is good .
' ' i asked the question ; the original question rather .
and left behind and turned the collar up around my neck .
he was too dignified to reply .
" " spezia , " the lady said .
' it ' s been done already .
' good luck , ' pop said .
but he said he didn’t like a hotel without a bar and so he almost never went near it .
' so you can see it was a good bombing .
, angling up the steep bank , where wilson had ordered a way shovelled out the day before so they
” “i was going good , ” manuel said .
below were the hills with oak and chestnut trees , and far away below was the sea .
been different .
after a while the tracker scratched it out .
he had to come back to the room to get his bottle of medicine , which he had forgotten ,
this was reached by a trail which ran from the cottage through the woods to the farm and then by
the bull looked at him .
” they each took a drink and then mr .
“you must write a story about this .
” “it probably was bad .
i ' ve learned it .
" " that was nothing , " brett said .
you could almost walk to burano .
space in the rear and it was sand colored .
he ' s on a wild-goose chase after them in some country over beyond the hills .
if it pleases him .
in the last five of the seven years between the summer of the prize-winning story and the day his father
' ' i am interested in other things .
those who were playing and what the little one had said .
it was a club only you didn’t have to pay any dues and you could pick a girl up there
" " well , why don ' t you start off ?
sea they had been in all night in the gulf .
pay .
' the old man appeared and got into the back of the car with m ' cola who was wearing
" it isn ' t far from london .
bill and i were out late , too .
he seemed to know all about influenza and said there was nothing to worry about if the fever did not
and were so foliaged that it looked as though you could walk on their tops .
he watched the rising and the forming of the texture and the gray color of the cake .
” they watched .
he’s right and he’s reasonable , ” eddy told him .
“it’s not so true , ” he said .
” the manager kept on with the relentless spanish logic .
we’ve had an extremely interesting case .
m ' cola and i came back down the valley , quartered it like bird dogs , circled and followed
they never seemed to move slowly .
not want to die , would share the contents of a match-box to produce the infection that would keep them
" i say it because it ' s true , " alice said .
it’s the way you are supposed to be and later on you will think you are very fortunate .
he didn ' t like this arc-light business .
" look at him now , " zurito said .
don ' t worry about how i feel about it .
in his last year at princeton he read too much and took to wearing spectacles .
" why was i not born with two good hands ?
he felt there was something between them .
the blade back the other direction .
' ' was there supposed to be a comparison ?
” “i been on lots of roads , ” blindy said .
i’m too happy to be tired .
” “not for anything , ” she said .
he laid his rod down now and went back to where the trunk of a small birch tree , dead
” nick went forward into the willows and picked up the three grouse and batted their heads against the butt
john put his kelly down on the table .
i wished that i had a michigan double-bitted axe , honed razor-sharp , to chop with instead of this sabring
' but i think it is a good idea .
that there is an old man in the party .
he was spider kelly ' s star pupil .
after he’d just weighed in and my old man had just weighed in too , and came out with the
now take it easy , the colonel said to himself .
” “here’s to next year .
" you got a good hand , kid , " manuel complimented him .
the colonel told her all about it ; but he did not utter it .
they ' ve never seen a desencajonada .
not in the absolute dark .
i had been that way for a long time , ever since i had been blown up at night and
" i don ' t want any more of that , " said sam , the cook .
we used to call him turd-face .
the trout was wonderful and the bacon , too .
" good old jake !
' the colonel asked , looking at her early morning , un-retouched dark beauty .
wheeler remembered .
" " your temperature is all right , " i said .
i’d love to just stay and read .
" " he hung himself with a rope .
” “that’s a good book , wemedge .
well , i went out of there and there were plenty of them with him and some came out after
' all i want is a good look at the dame .
bill had been rather difficult at the last .
“i’ll be back , ” i said .
" stop eating their dinner , michael , " brett shouted from the wine-barrels .
oh , lord , don ' t let them even catch a glimpse of it !
i ' m not gloomy .
” “dead at lérida .
even on a hot day san sebastian has a certain early-morning quality .
” nick stood up .
been of any use to him .
' the colonel went into the bathroom to wash up for dinner .
' get in the car , ' i told him .
bicycle road-racing was the only sport in the world , he said .
did we have one ?
" i know enough so i don ' t mind looking at you at all .
at the same time i have my life which i enjoy and which is a damned good life .
" two years ago this fall .
' i ' ll go , ' said p .
eyes of night birds that squatted close on the sand until the bulk of the car was on them and
alive as the hair of peasants , or the hair of the beauties of the great nobility , it was
” the man sat up feeling hollow and unsteady .
” “you’re talking through a sheet all right .
“i’ve got plenty .
the back door was locked too .
i was proud of everything and i thought gilford was as good a horse as kzar .
' ' i hope not .
he was happy the fight would start in a few minutes .
” the buzzer rang and he folded the razor and handed it to me .
’” “yes , ” interrupted a soldier .
” “i love you , ” he lied again .
” they must have thought i just needed to be argued into it because the one kept on .
her looks were going , and her attitude toward robert changed from one of careless possession and exploitation to the
it was cool in the shade , sitting on the log .
they were going fast and gaining on the crowd .
' _hey la mama !
the tent hung on the rope like a canvas blanket on a clothesline .
he put sugar in the empty apricot cup and poured some of the coffee out to cool .
absolutely nothing .
" look at that .
once i used a salamander from under an old log .
i haven’t any head to go out of .
you ' ll get a kudu .
the necessity for killing the priests and the guardia civil .
_ _num_ st soldier_--didn ' t you follow it , george ?
' ' good-bye , you damned bullfighter .
, the occasional pictures of children , and the letters , letters , letters .
” “thanks , yes , ” macomber said .
" i have never seen or heard of such a fish .
” “run along and keep off the road until the column gets up here .
“they’ve got skins on .
that same night he left for anatolia and he remembered , later on that trip , riding all day through
' ' after cherbourg we had everything .
but from the glimpse we had they looked higher in the legs than the cows we saw and they might
things were going to be all right .
garrick was not popular .
but you might like to have this portrait for a souvenir .
” “don’t talk nonsense .
' ' he would be , ' the colonel said .
zurito , sitting his horse , walking him toward the scene , not missing any detail , scowled .
my old man sat there and son of smiled at me , but his face was white and he looked
the fascists hold very strong positions .
it , the water coming just under my armpits .
' i understand .
it ' s even a shame .
anyway there wasn’t another thing for them to hit till they’d get to mexico once they were in that gulf
" " we must get a good killing lance and always have it on board .
he had been solidly hooked .
" " tell them about your medals .
he heard the rain on the windowpane and he smelled the beech logs burning in the fireplace .
' ' i don ' t put my hands much in my pockets when i ' m working .
" brett looked at me and wrinkled up the corners of her eyes .
“and be careful , ” “let me have one , ” he said .
" that means nothing .
” “i’ll wash them , ” said al .
” macomber asked wilson cheerfully .
before krebs went away to the war he had never been allowed to drive the family motor car .
him while he held his right foot on the fish ' s head .
bill and cohn stayed out in the café quite late , i believe , because i was asleep when they
" i shouldn ' t have ever got in this war .
that ' s one of his favourite shots , you know .
i want to stay in my own room .
it was all ice , new-frozen during the sudden , windless cold of the night .
” “retana .
" " it is one of the most heinous of crimes , " his father answered .
" " i think it ' s all bull , myself , " he said .
“what do you want to eat , al ?
forearm out .
” mrs .
i was just sore for a minute .
' they are worthless .
” i yelled .
perhaps it was my fault in not training that one properly .
“there’re the regular pics , ” he offered .
his waist .
' i love you very truly , too .
muerto .
in byron ' s bed nor in the other bed , two flights below , where he used to sleep
it was only perfect bull-fighting .
the _dichter_ .
” “but now ?
another trout broke water , feeding on the other side of the boat .
i was only pointing out to the colonel---- ' ' don ' t you point me out a god-damn thing
over and put the glass covers on the two free-lunch bowls .
' , to me .
and the other things he wore , was in no sense a soldier but only a man placed , against
, the horns black and curving handsomely back , there was a white patch on the muzzle and back from
' i have done that myself sometimes , the colonel thought , and did not ask him what the anger
i will provide a captain and a crew .
she hoped he would have a great career , and believed in him absolutely .
john had a bag with him with all his stuff in it .
” “they’ve only got proof on one thing , ” nick told her .
“need any dough ?
' i ' m not sore .
the last time they played mr .
but they ' d have it too and the essential problem is just the same , except who holds the
' we stood up and made our way out of the blind and out through the trees , walking on
' better to live one day as a lion than a hundred years as a sheep .
i’ll go and talk to them .
in back of them was the close second-growth timber of the point and in front was the bay with the
she simply opened the door , went in , and closed it behind her .
" you can read it , " i said .
pull up the blanket good and feel that wind .
there was a little beer in the bottom of the bottle .
" " i don ' t feel like seeing anybody .
i pointed my forefinger into my neck and wriggled the thumb down .
that was when i was a kitchen corporal .
" " shoot , " i said .
what there was she held as you put down all the cards , having counted exactly .
jack took off his shirt and collar and put on a jersey and a sweater , so he wouldn’t catch
i can get him .
didn’t they know enough to keep back ?
a fish like that could get all your line and it not be your fault .
my wife knows now all i think , all i say , all i believe , all i can do
" i knew they wouldn ' t come , " robert said .
he felt the maw heavy and slippery in his hands and he slit it open .
his flask since there was no water .
" " you got to get all right .
side of the taxis when it got steep going up the hill and he could see that hill every night
” “he was in despair .
" " clearly .
droopy did not sleep .
line of the river .
she fell alongside the drake .
the dancers were all quite drunk .
he was wiping all that out now .
“once a man’s married he’s absolutely bitched , ” bill went on .
far from the road .
' ' one is as necessary as the other .
we would be delighted .
what are bulls ?
“i took once .
told him i knew too many people in monte carlo .
you ' ll have to have some one to interpret .
no other important papers ?
not in a wishy-washy way or by giving you a little baby but really good for you so you’d write
" " i guess they will .
she had about the prettiest face i ever saw .
proud and astonished as mrs .
' i would love it .
" would you mind going down to the chapel or sending word down to sister cecilia that notre dame has
and the bell rang to pay off and we saw that kircubbin paid _num_ .
they put fontan in jail .
” “and i work here .
and waltzing solemnly to the riau-riau .
the stove .
“when i’m bigger i’ll shoot the muskrats and the jack-rabbits too , ” he said in english .
it was not finished to his satisfaction at the end of vacation .
but with it frozen-up i suppose i really ought to pull out instead of staying here like a fool .
all right , you bastard !
“i understand it .
help me now , enrique .
brett turned her head away .
' ' we did , ' i said .
“it’s about time , ” he said .
because she had done the best she could for many years back and the way they were together now was
' ' do you really hunt elephant in grass like that ?
darling , ” she said .
if i lose the glare of havana we must be going more to the eastward , he thought .
i understand it as a weakness .
“there are russians here today .
below us , to the right , the country was rough and broken in hills and stretches of meadow and
i stirred the ice around with a spoon in the brownish , cloudy mixture .
othello or the moor of venice .
” “he was a strong , low driver , stevie .
” “and the extremadura road ?
eat the bonito now .
' ' i ' m sorry for the shoot .
nick stretched under the blanket comfortably .
you must not , however , make a confusion with the seven-year locust or cicada which emits a peculiar sustained
” “he’ll turn up all right .
” “that detective gave him his though .
" i ' m going to clean them out .
[_the third roman soldier drinks the cup down .
“get dressed , jimmy .
” the other guy said , “i don’t give a good goddam if he did , the crook .
' it is truly lovely .
robert wilson .
he had his leather rod-case in his hand and leaning forward to keep the weight of the pack high on
” “i stayed here all the time you were in spain and you authorized me to pay these things as
that is one of the things you can ' t say no matter how true it is .
, never been blown up , never had their heads caved in , never been scared , don’t drink ,
paper and towels from the washroom and folded them over and made a plug for it and tied it tight
out from where i had folded them to make a pillow and folded them again , very un-neatly , and
and i’m hurting bad .
al wagner , the tank man , looked at me and raised what had been his eyebrows before they were
" " you can go now , mr .
i walked backwards down to the stem holding the pump gun .
manuel stood in the patio de caballos waiting for the charlie chaplins to be over .
' i wonder what he ' s riding me for now , the driver thought .
” the young gentleman asked the girl .
but there was still much forest then , virgin forest where the trees grew high before there were any branches
we had another round .
“they’re dope heads , ” he said to my father .
i threw him the stern line and he made her fast , and then came aboard ; longer , blearier
masai kill man .
" " well , " i said , " it ' s been damned hard on mike , having cohn
” “hogan , ” jack says .
all luck .
make them tremble in the fear of justice and of might .
nothing passed out williamson until he gave him all his morphine tablets that he had always saved to use himself
what’s the matter with the engine ?
i bought it .
there was no word from robert cohn nor from brett and mike .
he stood in the road watching .
and out onto the plain and along past the smudges that were burning brightly now , the grass all consumed
“he says he never saw the fellow at all , ” the interpreter said .
you write them yourself .
she looked at me dully .
any rate , my tailor wrote me and wanted the medals back .
” “it’s certain , ” i said .
he thought in bull-fight terms .
he looked up the hill .
everything about him was beautiful except his jaws .
wheeler drank the wine and smiled to himself for some time .
” “well , ” said johnson , “they’re too big .
“watch her , ” i said , and i took her in to where i knew they could see us
“i drink a little now once in a while , just to drive the wolf out of the room .
on is that every day the buses will be going out to whatever track they’re running at , going right
going to live abroad .
m ' cola and kamau agreed and we walked up the bank to see how it would be .
manuel opened his eyes and looked at zurito .
dick boulton walked around past the cottage down to the lake .
blink at all .
” i translated to red .
had opened the wrong door in a hotel and seen something shameful .
no one was looking at anyone else .
the other two were behind one of the tropical beer ice wagons that was stopped in front of the cunard
" i can ' t do it .
, gesturing , talking .
the boards were hard .
be considered a fool and many people go hungry .
frazer did not see cayetano again for a long time , but each morning sister cecilia brought news of him
but you do not buy them , stating your purpose in possessing them , unless you are a fool ,
but if you’d be patient with them down at the hotel you’d get rid of them .
then our ways had gone a long way apart .
it sounds to be something very bad .
i can ' t .
she was staying with another girl at the grand hotel .
they were not rough with her , but they walked her steadily toward the car .
the ice across the canal as other boats had gone on ahead .
side to them in time for a shot .
use that bunk .
je n’aime pas les houblons .
” “put on these arm bands , ” claude said .
" " isn ' t it rotten ?
” “is dead , captain doctor .
he was feeling better since the water and he knew he would not go away and his head was clear
“if you catch a sailfish what do you do with it ?
it was funny how much fun it was to swim underwater and how little fun there was in plain swimming
then i ' d get the night and the early morning and give this lick a rest .
could be michelangelo .
all the time he was thinking and holding his body in where it was busted .
i just look after it for her .
that was all gone now , and he did without difficulty whatever he should do .
” he had his fire made and the skillet resting on it and he was laying strips of bacon in
" " the hell he is .
” down the table manolita was laughing at something the new englishman had said in spanish .
because the attack was a failure , and i did not want to face them .
to where i could see them and then , in the sunlight , high up on the hillside against the
nick kept his direction by the sun .
" " well , let him behave , then .
as soon as the men would come into the grass .
macomber said .
tomorrow we’ll really get an early start .
” “south germans , ” i said .
” “it’s more comfortable this way .
“you’re going to cross alone , captain ?
i didn’t tell you all the ones .
they were all three from milan , and one of them was to be a lawyer , and one was
" look how he bit me .
at the top of the shallow northeast trade wind , the brisa .
his hoof might have got well .
" hogan charged me for the rubbing .
he would say , ' by godd , urnust , dot ' s smardt ' .
they were all about the same size .
“you don’t look well , ” retana said .
' ' let ' s skip war .
i’m awfully sorry about the odor though .
“bigger than a cat .
“un’ mezz’ora .
” “well , ” the man said , “if you don’t want to you don’t have to .
you can work your way back .
" fontan looked very upset .
i guess they don’t get overpaid .
" have a drink ?
” george did not say anything .
" i ' m thirty-four , you know .
his arm was around the dog’s neck now and he could feel him shivering .
" me , manolo , " manuel said .
" " sometimes .
' i have a disappointment for you , richard , ' she said .
the blacksmith shop was painted red and faced the school .
the waiter came and went and came again .
but i ' ve seen them worth a certain amount of money when the chips were down .
even crack it .
“what are you going to kill him for , then ?
marcial had a big day .
' he snorted like a steam engine , ' p .
all this .
let the others come to america who did not know that they had come too late .
' i ' d like to read him any time i have time .
” “so have i , ” said the girl .
i didn’t figure he was as mean as he talked .
the girl had undone the top strap of her bathing-suit and was browning her back .
” his voice was very high and breaking .
then , ' oh .
so he could not breathe .
the big trees swayed far over in the wind as he watched .
the slashing heavily cut prints of their hoofs as they had gone off up the bank and then , far-spaced
that was a long time ago .
' shenzi , ' m ' cola said and imitated a man pulling a bow .
the darkened room .
they will charge me less than they would charge you .
" he named them carefully .
“well , dad’s had a tough time , ” bill said .
“no , thank you , ” said the waiter and went out .
" bill asked cohn .
there had evidently been considerable talking going on .
these i should distribute with a kind word and a pat on the back .
“no , he’s not , ” said zurito .
after i left they must have found all the boats were there and that would make them think you were
' she cut a thin , paper thin , slice for him , ferociously and lovingly , and when the
he had given them the keys .
oh , darling , please understand !
she carried a plate with two fried eggs and some crisp bacon on it and a plate of buckwheat cakes
we others have been wounded .
“carry that bicycle off the road , ” i said to the copains .
it’s bad for me .
" " first the egg , " said bill .
“we just came to say good-by .
” “do you think they’re through ?
' ' that ' s a hell of a literary anecdote , ' pop said .
i never knew that anything could be so wonderful to eat .
” “i’m putting it on .
ever since these tusks had grown beyond their normal size the elephant had been hunted for them and now the
” “we’ll take the next town .
the street was wide and the houses high and yellow .
they ' d have made me stay in the line all the time .
weed-grown slashing .
glass .
already she can ' t have another baby .
" the bull ' s still strong .
“but i guess i have to go away for a while .
“take your unearned increment , ” the chef said .
” said enrique .
" i hope you sleep , signor tenente .
hit them .
' he wants to know if you are going to shoot something else , ' pop said .
i would like to live long enough to write three more novels and twenty-five more stories .
” “i cannot see , ” she said .
looked as though the horn must have come through .
' ' we ' re enough alike , ' the colonel said .
for to-morrow , when we make the competition .
' ' they don ' t , ' the colonel said .
' don ' t tip the boat over .
' ' you never hurt me .
' in america , they make such things of wire and of sponge-rubber , such as you use in the
tracks .
but i’ll stake out a blanket behind it .
" rafael , doesn ' t he look like villalta ?
there was not much it could do now to trees except blow the dead brown palm branches and bum the
just as civil war is the best war for a writer , the most complete .
” “please tell me what i can do .
we crossed to the left bank of the seine by the wooden foot-bridge from the quai de bethune , and
he found one , finally , and turned carefully .
up ; and i cut the muscle right across his arm and he let go of me .
” “can’t i come with you through the swamp ?
he was very excited .
but don’t take chances , nickie .
" all our biggest business men have been dreamers .
it is one of the best restaurants in the world .
he was very lazy but a great worker once he was started .
" you don ' t look well , " retana said .
" you know , " mike went on , " brett was rather good .
' ' oh , you are going to have to tell them to me later .
they tried in boston after they were married and they tried coming over on the boat .
" don ' t you ever detach me from the herd , mike .
roger , please do that again .
i did not like to wake him up , but i wanted to lock the office and shove off .
yes , it is like--what do you call--having here with you--with the two of you--yes there--it is the heinz tomato
the ducks are coming in heavily from the north .
a catalogue of old books ?
after all i abused it much in the night when it was necessary to free and unite the various lines
then they’re not nearly as good .
" finally we could not see genoa .
riding for yourself makes an awful difference .
told him to look alive or i’d see he got about fifteen of the best .
” “was it that you thought i was ambitious ?
” “i bore the hell out of myself sometimes , ” he said .
” “all right , ” i told him .
“i’m going to go and eat now .
” “when did you see him last ?
and it’s true and you know it’s true and god can strike me dead if it isn’t true .
he had not realized how tired he was until the cold had waked him .
you dirty little whore .
the edge of the hill where there was a valley and a long open meadow with timber on the far
' ' well , the last night we were in paris i ' d been out shooting at ben gallagher
it was his affair with a lady of title .
“it’s not even a principle , jimmy .
' ' why should any man shoot a kudu ?
your lorry is on the way .
about nine-thirty i heard jack getting up in the next room .
" there isn ' t any need to ride me .
one day montoya took them all out and dropped them in the waste-basket .
i am sorry that i did that thing .
shot , or that were eatable .
" that ' s dirty .
poor karl , faced by these three sad-faced congratulators , was beginning to feel his pleasure in the rhino drained
“go and get him .
“i’m so glad you’re americans .
a bottle of wine was good company .
" " why did you leave ?
that she was sleepy .
the safari itself lasted about ten weeks , but everything he saw seems to have made an indelible impression on
the boy carried the hot can of coffee up to the old man ' s shack and sat by him
” “comes now the steel hat man , ” said the other looking out of the window .
in the morning .
“what’s one more ?
and to see the river .
" " i don ' t want you to do anything that you don ' t want to do---- "
' i ' ve been trying to learn italian from my friend here .
he had said nothing since the negro had spoken about the knife .
his sleep had made him quite all right .
" " he shouldn ' t be living with any one .
they were talking inside the room .
" " you wouldn ' t read any letters , darling .
then he said , " no , no , let us cross over the river and rest under the shade
’” “no , ” said my wife , “i suppose not .
the bull elk has a strong musky smell .
then something whished through the air and struck by him .
“put the light out please .
“wait a minute , ” somebody said .
“most everybody goes in boats calls each other brother .
or maybe we have a differing definition for the word .
it was a competition that belmonte would not enter because it would lead only to a bad horn wound or
i ought to have known better .
“no , ” said krebs .
he was trying to come up , still holding onto the luger , only he couldn’t get his head up
" aren ' t you going to shut it ?
” the one asked me .
lazare .
" " look , brett .
” “you know his head is swelled so badly now he’s getting sort of mad .
“we are all going home together .
, grey and sure of himself , carrying that heavy head and with the hostile eyes .
i don ' t think so .
because it wouldn ' t make any difference to me .
you are killing me , fish , the old man thought .
against the thwart and leaning back against the pull .
” “roger , would you really not mind if i went to sleep ?
" or " will you pass me that ?
” “two big dicks , ” said the brakeman .
one of the boys says he heard the faro , too .
but the foreigner destroys , cuts down the trees , drains the water , so that the water supply is
" " this is bill gorton .
i’ll only be a minute .
' ' is he really fresh ?
“i am utterly unable to resign myself , ” he said and choked .
but then he would see the cramped hand .
the great general who was to explain the operation .
the trees beside the road were dusty .
me lives on and maybe yet will live to see the actual death of members of this literary sect and
you didn’t think i drank a couple of cups of whisky and water every noon by myself before lunch did
“my wife does , though .
they are always thinking of what they have seen and while you are talking they are thinking of what they
we had seen the rhino go in .
" " i think i can last , " jack says .
it was he spoke and i believe we planned the entire campaign for the next day .
then he leaned the guns against each side of the shell bag .
i wrote out an itinerary so they could follow us .
” he stood up and i watched him go out .
oh , i wish to christ he wouldn’t have got it .
' m ' cola said shaking his head .
a porter came in and said the simplon-orient express was an hour late at saint maurice .
" you asleep ?
" jack stands up and the sweat comes out all over his face .
you’re not the glass and the ice .
' m ' uzuri sana , ' he said to me .
" i believe it , " the boy said .
“come up any time and make yourself at home .
the big , dark-haired picador was playing billiards , the short , serious matador was sitting at a crowded table
” “how many are you now to a brigade ?
finally the road began to lift gradually into the hills again , low , blue , wooded hills now ,
rest of it was quite clear , including the responsibilities .
he grabbed the horn with his two hands and rode backward , holding tight onto the place .
“the way it feels when you first drop off on a long run .
” the doctor tossed the saucer full of iodine in his face .
are there only the two ?
” “that’s all right , ” his father said .
he was a patriot and inflamed by hearing d ' annunzio talk , and he volunteered before his class was
“i’ll only take kongoni , ” wilson said .
“get up and try to walk now .
it turned on its side and then righted itself .
" on ne mange pas bien .
“you’ve done everything .
“good morning , ” his sister said .
' ' even then you can ' t overhear because they ' re always talking their own language .
but last night , and at first light , i talked to the portrait as though it were you .
now if this was how it ended , and he knew it was , he must not turn like some
" forty years ago .
" because i do not know what the fish is going to do .
now look at it .
and , away off , the mountains .
' ' i love you .
“you mustn’t feel that way .
“it’ll look good .
the burned country stopped off at the left with the range of hills .
“don’t you think it’s about time ?
" " aren ' t you working ?
" brett put out her hand .
why , who could prove anything ?
wall .
down the attacks with rifle fire and with the machine guns which still existed , or were usable , after
then she sat down across the table from krebs .
strings of beads .
” he pronounced it with the accent on the toe as oc-toepus .
' ' let us not keep him waiting , jackson , ' the colonel said .
” “but you never got broke before , eh ?
" " may i take the cast net ?
” john asks him .
" " another copita before you go ?
he would know him again .
it was still as sound as your grandfather ' s purdey shot-gun .
” they talked , sitting their gaunt horses in the dark .
' i wouldn ' t do it .
but a chautauqua was something strange .
retaken , he corrected .
” “you’re immoral , wemedge .
manuel and hernandez standing ready with their capes .
the trigger ' s like the last turn of the key opening a sardine can .
that was settled , so there was no use to think how much i wanted to stay .
that was the day he’d first seen dead men wearing white ballet skirts and upturned shoes with pompons on them
" " i myself am somewhat in retard , " johnson went on .
" " nobody ever lives their life all the way up except bull-fighters .
“look after this , ” he said .
that’s not his play .
” “it’s worse than this .
we don ' t save anything .
” the manager leaned over the table in great confidence .
je connais beaucoup de rats d’eau .
" what did you do this afternoon ?
my soldier suits , the medals and decorations with the citations and some books .
many fragments we found a considerable distance away in the fields , they being carried farther by their own weight
" the owner of the bottle shouted .
_num_ ’s you can find , ” nick adams said .
should i talk american ?
now , heavy socks removed , stepping tentatively , trying the pressure of the leather against the toes , the
when he dreamed with sacré coeur , blown white , like a soap bubble .
fifteen to one .
“i asked the police .
do you want me to make breakfast ?
everybody sat on folding chairs as for a chautauqua lecture .
why they keep up a traffic like that ?
” “but this is the one you’ve got proof of .
same as any other shot , i saw the bead centred exactly where it should be just below the top
kilimanjaro is a snow-covered mountain _num_ , _num_ feet high , and is said to be the highest mountain in
he was looking at bill , trying to make him out .
the consular services a miss .
the door from the street opened .
” “i think it’s all bull , myself , ” he said .
" " elle est indienne ?
" would you pic two bulls for me to-morrow night ?
he grinned and said , ' more beer ?
” “what of the back ?
' ' i take it anyway you want as long as it is true .
there was nothing to do about his father and he had thought it all through many times .
" " but you ' ve never been to south america .
he don ' t care about a left-hand in his face .
' ' the position has fallen , my colonel .
animal life , which i could not clearly observe because of the great clouds of dust raised by the trucks
you ought to be able to eat on that .
" that ' s not irony .
well , i had plenty of time to think about it and i held her on her course and every
it was the part of any town he always went to first .
movement of the water against his hand as the boat moved .
it was our mother told them you’d gone fishing at the creek .
you get him .
” “he’s dumb , ” said al .
" " i better go .
kicking , kicking , the bull after him , missing him in his excitement , bumping him with his head
” “skip it , ” said al .
brett ' s her own name .
" asked the adjutant .
make it top sergeant in the old days ; except he ' s dealing always with the brass .
before the sunset .
” “here is the place , ” said a soldier .
” “go on with the story , please , and don’t be bad .
pied de port and was stopping at the inn for the fishing .
' no , you won ' t , ' she said .
it must uncramp .
” “cut it out , ” said the detective .
" no , " retana waved his hand , " i never smoke .
it is awfully nice having her in the car asleep , he thought .
the girl ladled some onto a plate for an old man who stood holding a bottle of red wine in
it wasn’t this woman’s fault .
” “oh shut up , ” said the doctor .
it ' s awful when you can ' t slide .
' ' we ' ve had some luck .
great weight , though the pressure of his thumb and finger were almost imperceptible .
he saw , too , that she was the portrait of his own true love and so he said ,
she liked it about how white his teeth were when he smiled .
at how big he looked , and then , remembering not to have it matter , that it was the
but for ground support give me a man like pete quesada .
the next morning was the last day before the fight .
of course it isn ' t .
“try and not feel too bad about it .
you , an intelligent man , a poet , to shoot kudu .
ever close windows ?
" j ' aime beaucoup shooter les canards .
in the end i find she is very nice .
' in different ways .
good in bed , comfortable , happy , fishing tomorrow , he prayed as he always prayed when he remembered
" " how ' s your boy friend ?
' he must be over fifty , ' pop said .
he had lived a very long time with death and was a little detached .
you say .
fuentes stood watching , his cape held against his body , tall , in repose , watching lazy-eyed .
“i wouldn’t be afraid .
' ' did you fight much ?
tell her how they beat their old mothers .
but i must kill him .
' what ?
" ' arriving to-night .
sandy road that ran down to the woods , crossing the creek , on a bridge this time , where
i won’t try and flop it , he thought .
" " one sheet .
you had to step over him to get to the table where two plain clothes policemen sat and examined everyone’s
you paid some way for everything that was any good .
i will do what i can with one hand for the cause .
it was very hot in the sun and nick removed the helmet .
" he behaved rather well , too .
" " i say , i must borrow your glasses to-morrow .
” “do you want to ?
” tommy asked .
cipriani will not like it .
“here it is .
all seen through the aperture , i froze myself inside and held the bead on the top of his shoulder
“does it hurt your feet , littless ?
” “but it was my duty .
many that looked impossible we did .
hands on his bad one and said , ' you were quite gentle .
room from becoming in any sense the club , this definite baptism and classification came as rather a blow to
hump of shoulder muscle as he tore loose to find hernandez ' s cape before his muzzle .
' when do we start ?
if it’s a scar and not a scab it won’t hurt to will it ?
" " well , i want to go to south america .
' ' i ' d like to know about them .
marcial was the second .
” “you can try it and see .
a hill when he was ready to fight .
” the porter took out a pair of gold-rimmed glasses from his coat pocket and looked over the list .
i sure learned about racing from going out with that gang and the fun of it was going every day
he wouldn’t have met them at the ritz bar or at chicote’s either in those days .
made more mistakes .
a cold mist was coming up through the woods from the bay .
“good night , sir , ” said the chef .
as i went into the dining-room the concierge brought me a police bulletin to fill out .
a taxi came up the street , the waiter hanging out at the side .
when the priest uncovered her face he asked olz , ' did your wife suffer much ?
then three more came over farther down the wall .
bed at night .
“makes no difference , ” he said .
as he could get it .
” pinin looked at the floor .
you’re such a bloody fool .
' i know about those things .
he was plenty nervous .
he had two quarts with him .
he liked her face because it was so jolly but he never thought about her .
this time you wear canvas ankle-high shoes , light to pull out when you sink , you work out from
back in the room i wrote the boy’s temperature down and made a note of the time to give the
ever seen and bigger than he had ever heard of , and his left hand was still as tight as
" " jake , " mike called .
" " i don ' t want to look at him .
gave them to abdullah .
on our return to milan i recall one or two of us discussing the occurrence and agreeing that the quality
“here is where juma wounded the big bull , ” his father said .
the bull crashed into the barrera where the flopping capes had attracted his eye as he lost the man .
that ' s simple .
then when they do know , half the time they’re goofy and want to use line that isn’t strong enough
of the picadors one was a thin , hawk-faced , gray-haired man , lightly built but with legs and arms
the cars started and in the back seat of the front car men were putting the machine guns back into
but you _will_ be careful .
the photographs did not make much difference to the major because he only looked out of the window .
" the innkeeper spoke to the sexton .
” freedman stands there all the time while jack bandages the other hand , and one of the boys that’s
a little beyond there a flock of guineas quick-legged across the road running steady-headed with the motion of trotters .
michael ' s been lovely , too .
getting killed .
so he selected him for breeding .
” “it’s a beautiful , beautiful place , nickie , ” his sister said .
“much more fashionable to say you’re scared .
but nothing came and i was worried .
' ' do you think you will be warm enough ?
" " i ' m not sore .
he was convincing himself there was no need for him to go .
they waved to us .
no matter what passes i must gut the dolphin so he does not spoil and eat some of him to
you knew my fiancé who was in the police and went to barcelona ?
" sure , but you live in france , " madame fontan said .
“i had the damn thing but i’m still all the woman you can handle , aren’t i ?
" it and wine too .
' _gran maestro_ , ' he asked , ' did my illustrious compatriot look up the _barone_ in baedeker ?
” “dropped a double header to the giants .
it was funny going along that road .
jack was watching us and shaking his head .
" you don ' t believe i love you , do you ?
" " never .
i can always borrow two dollars and a half .
" " oh , some will come through .
the men ate seriously .
it was early , and there was no one in the café except the barman and these two who sat
' get your decoys out , ' he called to the man in the boat .
at the end of the safari , hemingway had filled his mind with images , incidents , and character studies
' so you do it again .
frankie looked as interested as ever and smiled at him .
, dr .
" " we ' ll wait and see .
they walked down the hill across the fields and then turned to follow the river bank .
“i’ll kill you !
" " with a bath ?
i ' m really delighted , of course .
somehow her father was there and he had been very rude .
i can promise you that .
it is necessary for a bull fighter to give the appearance , if not of prosperity , at least of
they all looked about the same and they were crowding running and then came the bull .
the other two porters said “salut .
' ' i ' m damned if i do sometimes myself .
juma was very confident and they moved fast .
we glassed that valley until the sun came on to us , then hunted around the other side of the
come on , then , ” his father said .
“oh , enrique , ” she said , “help me .
piles of magazines which accumulated in one of the office rooms of the embassy .
if i handled both our expenses , would you go to south america with me ?
chapter xvii when it started to be light , the colonel saw the portrait .
" jesus christ , " i said to him , " you said you ' d pay that and you
oh most rigorously .
” “i don’t want any order .
' that ' s lovely .
all her muscles are trying to get the baby born .
everything was being loaded into the car and they were all gathering up their meat from the sticks around the
they swept down and around and came pounding past and kzar was way back when they passed us and this
” “they were good at gaudalajara .
but there is something about a man shot off a bicycle at close range that is too intimate .
but she saw the change in francis macomber now .
once the outfit is over that black cotton stretch we ' re all right if the rain catches us .
_ _num_ d soldier_--she used to have a lot of stuff .
it was the first meal of the prices being doubled for the fiesta , and there were several new courses
but they weren ' t ever jews , and they didn ' t come and hang about afterward .
he did not dream of the lions but instead of a vast school of porpoises that stretched for eight or
fertility , money , blood and iron .
we were specialists in a dirty trade .
" " dos cervezas , " the man said into the curtain .
marc is very good .
" or we don ' t drink it .
we turned sharply out to the side of the road to give room to pass to a long string of
" hello , " said jack .
” “how are you really ?
" " marie va chercher de la bière , " fontan said .
you don’t think it will discourage me , do you ?
something in the door clicked several times and it swung open .
left until there were only two still running with us , the finest runners of the lot , who kept
“he is in much pain .
” “boy !
just then he heard the light swish of pinions , fast beating in the air , and looked up .
" " where did you get that one ?
“i will describe it eventually .
then she walked across the dock and up the steep sandy road to go to bed .
it was warm at the top but he dropped quickly into cool , then cold .
a man can ask .
' ' why you ' re a literary bastard , ' i said .
tilted on its side , spills off its load into the blue water , turning it a pale green to
i said we would be right back .
" i ' ve had a good time .
what kind of hour is that to go to bed ?
” pinin was the major’s orderly .
i jerk cord for them to bring me up .
' ' hell , no , ' said pop .
' ' by elevator , ' she said , and he heard the change in her voice .
” “you’re shot worse , ” the nigger said .
the germans , living and dead , who had defended the bridge , into the seine river , ' he
anyway , his office had a green baize door and a big wooden door , and when i went out
” “what did i say about betting on the fight ?
everybody drinks beer .
he turned on his side and shut his eyes .
" it mounts to my head .
can’t you do business without getting angry ?
you better take a sandwich , ” all this in a low , smooth , polite nigger voice .
” they were in the big hemlocks on the hill behind the house now .
” “all right , ” the man said .
coming toward us , from the direction of the huts , were two men and a boy .
' listen .
belmonte came down in his street clothes with his manager and two other men .
if you made the market , on this side of town , without ever being stymied , you won the
he looked at it .
" " after i scalped him i ' d throw him to the dogs .
walcott covered up and jack was swinging wild at walcott ' s head .
' how big was he ?
” “i don’t want to look at him .
then he shifted the heavy line from his right hand to his left and washed his right hand in the
we came up behind a prairie-dog town and stopped the car to shoot at the prairie-dogs with the pistol .
” “i know that , ” i said .
qué tal ?
we were going through farming country with rocky hills that sloped down into the fields .
“what is it , harry ?
smith liked jim .
" shut up , mike .
he started bull-fighting in malaga in the bull-fighting school there .
at least to start with .
you must write it .
' you know .
the cab started with a jerk .
a woman standing in the doorway of one smiled at us and we crossed the street and went in .
" " i want it , " the boy said .
” “don’t go if you don’t want to , ” george said .
" what did you do ?
stock of decoys out , cold weather , and the certainty of a flight on .
“there were three animals altogether , ” he explained .
“lung and gut shot , ” his father said .
to tell us that they had saved us ten pounds of fresh meat .
his bare feet felt the sandy planks of the dock .
there is no other way to describe it .
” “i’d like to be something else tomorrow , ” he said .
, at his big brown hands , his old slacks , his very dirty boots and back to his red
then he said , “if we should try it ?
" " what ' s mike going to do ?
you never have any dreams except bad dreams .
and we had no luck .
' s in the sologne the day before and he had a _fermée_ , you know , they put up
" " so , " said the porter .
i didn ' t sleep all last night .
” “but what’s happened ?
” “good old horace .
“it doesn’t make any difference about the wine .
“that’s true , ” he said .
" half fish , " he said .
” “il est bon , le pump , ” fontan nodded his head .
can i be like you a little while to-night ?
to him ?
one is up-stairs on the second floor and looks out on the square .
well , you get hungry if you do that too .
the bus climbed steadily up the road .
' there he was , long-hulked , heavy-sided , prehistoric looking , the hide like vulcanized rubber and faintly transparent
" yes , while you ' re in there , " retana said .
she had missed the chance to leave him and he knew it .
“i am not in their confidence .
“there’s a table , ” i said as two soldiers and two girls got up to go .
” “can’t we make a trip on it sometime ?
" there isn ' t too much rum in that .
it ' s a great pleasure to drive that big engine on the good roads .
“i’m awfully sorry about that lion business .
what ' s he say , pop ?
but the hemlock forests were .
" " oh , rot !
he shut the curtain .
” “it hurts me all the time .
then there were other mountains dark ahead .
' you can ' t go .
" i know he ' s not dead .
' ' it ' s bad , ' the girl said .
“is chaves hurt bad ?
he would go over to the schoolyard and watch helen play indoor baseball .
“everyone fears planes .
i tell you truly .
still running water in the back rooms on all of the floors .
i stole that , he thought .
that was many months later .
suddenly one of them saw what he was looking for , and pointed .
' they ' ll return them all right , through channels , ' jackson thought , and put the car
' you want to bet on that ?
what’s our name ?
we could take a chance on the timber .
” now he had money he went off a good deal faster but i tell you it was poison to
' and my cartridges .
it was that week that we discovered they still had tonic water .
“he’s some sort of a dane .
“now , ” he said , “i want to take it slow and easy .
on our way in , we stopped and stalked the other salt-lick .
” he asked , putting the book down .
” he took a drink and licked his lips carefully .
he would .
i knew our crowd must have all been out at the bull-ring .
i have saved your table .
then i asked you to ask him and you were too timid .
i was furnishing all the tackle and he had her chartered at thirty-five dollars a day .
moors would open up on the flash .
" what ' s the other girls ' names ?
' ' tell me about paris , please .
retana ' s man handed him the sword over the edge of the barrera .
' the hell with it , ' he said .
eat them good now and then there is the tuna .
_ _num_ st soldier_--just another round .
one of the boys was spread out on the sidewalk , face down , just outside the big window that
' ' proceed to reveal , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
we ' re all going , " frances said from the end of the table .
“but what will they do under the artillery when i was told to leave because of the artillery ?
as possible to carry and deal with made it quite removed from the usual battlefield experience .
try to get all these in one person and have him come through all the influences that press on a
, never been blown up , never had their heads caved in , never been scared , don ' t
“so , ” enrique said quietly .
i ' d be lucky if i _got_ to buffalo .
“many letters , ” she said .
colonel watched his progress towards home by the movement of the brush .
it’s better to get away .
“well , i guess there isn’t any use to stay around .
“i would like to kill you .
' ' i have one already iced .
” “are those men all dead ?
' ' but didn ' t many modern soldiers write ?
” “if those were your first stories , the ones i read , you had a right to be confident
" it ' s a crime .
“i should have told her it was sort of late for me too .
” “you’ll kill him marvellously , ” she said .
' ' i went to call on him once in dublin , ' p .
he had it open , and i looked out at that park-like country , the engine hot under my boots
“but i never wanted to get shot .
” “if any chink starts bursting out of the cabin or coming through the hatch , once we’re out and
my attention has been faulty again .
light on and took out the order blank and read : in the event of my death the wrapped painting
oh , give them irony and give them pity .
my life .
it to him told him to shoot .
" bill asked .
he knew that half of him had been destroyed .
it spread slowly on the plate .
“i wish you’d put down the paper a minute , harold , ” she said .
' ' shouldn ' t you take the medicine ?
it narrowed in a high grass a hundred yards above the dam and then , walking slowly and carefully ,
' we had lunch , a very good lunch , and it was just over when kati came and said
but right now he ' s got everything .
you can’t have an idea what it’s like .
and you know it , and i never lie and you know it .
he was shivering with the morning cold .
it ' s really not anything .
” “no , ” says jack .
” he looked at manuel , leaning back behind the big desk .
you are two years younger than the girl that you portray and she is younger and older than hell ;
“but i got to steer .
have a boy of her own just my age and was going to a place in new york to be
and how quiet it got and then somebody saying , “you bloody murderous bastard .
" " don ' t be a fool , " nick said cheerfully .
" what did i tell you ?
“i dedicate this bull to you , mr .
' ' i agree , ' ettore said .
' ' would you have a drink with us , andrea ?
madly , snapping and tearing at himself until he pulled his own intestines out , and then stood there ,
his wife weighs two hundred twenty-five pounds .
“only sparrows .
do you need that big a cannon when you go out hunting kids ?
" seven .
cohn and mr .
' ' with my wife .
fountain ; and overhead the cracking , whispering fire like a curtain .
my last and only and true love .
" there are many good fishermen and some great ones .
” “don’t think about it , signor tenente .
this way , we will have better wine and make an impressive saving .
" " say , jerry , " john said to me .
“after a little we’ll have a look .
" it was quite a thing to watch , " edna said .
we got a certain amount of replacements but i can remember thinking that it would be simpler and more effective
' where did you bring them from .
my god , that’s the first time i ever saw that in my life .
” “of course you haven’t got the guts to just go back , ” said the wife .
when the fish had been hit it was as though he himself were hit .
but it is a uniform .
you ' ve been damned nice .
" " you know you ' d like to see him .
behind a horse one time watching the horror of the flies scuttling around his crupper .
“i’ll cut your coleta myself .
' ' i think several things .
' ' i ' m not lonely when i ' m working .
' did you bring any k-rations or ten in one ?
“remember me to cipriani and tell him i will be in some day soon to see about my bill ,
to ornament their gods , he thought .
not yet .
” “stop talking that way .
ever go to the movies ?
” “we’ll work everything out fine .
there were empty tin cans around the back door .
water while i swam and i was plenty glad there weren’t sharks ; but i was tired .
' ' we ' ve never had a fair chance .
" ' ' i ' ll remember it and i ' ll practise it at home .
close , the smell of the good old wanderobo-masai .
" barmen and jockeys are the only people who are polite any more .
gamblers sitting there and cutting each other up .
while his father washed his hands very carefully and thoroughly , he talked .
the faithful bull one time there was a bull and his name was not ferdinand and he cared nothing for
he looked out at the bull , planning his faena , his work with the red cloth that was to
of natural history be studied without increasing that faith , love and hope which we also , every one of
' in a high , screaming shout .
packard .
" his father looked and said , " suck it out clean and put some iodine on when you get
have you got it fixed ?
he could forgive attacks of nerves , panic , bad unexplainable actions , all sorts of lapses .
back in bed , i went to sleep .
" he stood looking after the basket inside the kitchen door .
packard can eat half a dozen and i know other people that can .
' ' but isn ' t mr .
" " one can , with honor , denounce one ' s assailant .
down below there were grassy plains and clear streams , and then we crossed a stream and went through a
y .
when they seen him go up there they didn ' t want any of it .
it seemed better than it was .
see , he saw the fish was on his back with his silver belly up .
" they sat down at the table and the girl looked across at the hills on the dry side of
splendid nigger .
up , and stringing it again .
' perhaps they ' ll find the bull , ' pop said .
orient himself so he would come out at the market without getting up any dead ends .
you know what i’m betting on him ?
“mon capitaine , should we die together ?
” “they’ll know us both here now .
" " it ' s one thing i don ' t worry about , " i said .
world near any populated centre ; and been re-conditioned and re-converted to start this new life on the canals of
" ' ' that ' s very interesting , sir , ' jackson said .
they look like tank men when they get in .
' here !
” “you’ll be one .
' i wonder what cheeses he has ?
this was living .
' on suggesting to the two testimonial-equipped , breeched guides that they select an unclothed partner , we found this
when she came back to the _lit salon_ compartment again , the beds had been pushed back into the wall
you could see the hook go thirty feet in the air when he threw it .
' ' it is sole , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
“she knows , ” jack said .
in the heat of the sun and the tall grass blowing .
” “i’m ninety-six and he’s sixty-nine , ” tommy said .
as we came to camp , and the shade of the heavy trees , cool as a pool , i
" i think it ' s hell on earth .
m ' cola climbed in with them .
" oh , he ' ll just wade across the stream .
“and so will everyone in this stinking jerkwater little town if i have to grub it out by the roots
you probably did not hear the shooting because it was against the wind .
" " have you seen the bulls for to-morrow ?
nobody is .
them written .
he took the long oar the boatman handed him and reversed it so he could hold it by the blade
but my old man saying that right out like that sure took the kick all out of it for me
he had a date at maxim’s at twelve .
mostly extremely plausible out of something called the rotary club that you would never have heard of .
to brett .
if there is a hurricane you always see the signs of it in the sky for days ahead , if
” “pinin !
george watched them , through the window , pass under the arc-light and cross the street .
" " oh , darling , please stay by me .
he was not at all embarrassed .
an aficionado is one who is passionate about the bull-fights .
old place the boys wet their knuckles on and i will get one in there and then must go sideways
' yes , ' said the colonel .
and then i had to watch for the sand bar that came way out beyond the point .
' ' i only want what you will tell me .
" they ' re not first-rate flies at all .
you’re all right .
" " you ' ve got some good kids , " hernandez said .
“simply anything .
_ _num_ st soldier_--oh , i don ' t know .
the next day in the paper we read that he was twenty-eight years old , and had a farm ,
” “you don’t know his name ?
” “i’m full .
" " you did for a long time , " the girl said .
' ' well , it ' s a tougher town than casper .
but i was in bad shape .
i tried to take the bulk of the hill beats to relieve him but i could see , now that
americans ?
nick did not want to go in there now .
and there was gaby delys , oddly enough , with feathers on ; you called me baby doll a year
i fancy he ' s sleeping .
” we saw them get on the train two at a time and we got on too and went to
you ask me that ?
" he drank off the beer .
wheeler in montreux inside the station cafe it was warm and light .
we got to bayonne just before the train left .
' _ciao_ , ' the colonel said .
in the dark nick put his arm down into the spring but could not hold it there because of the
' isn ' t triumph simply marvellous ?
you know everything .
the match went out .
i must remember to eat the tuna before he spoils in order to keep strong .
some one rapped on the cage with an iron bar .
i don’t go in america , only sometimes in a long while .
i ' ve seen it for some time .
' i feel as though i were out on some bare-assed hill where it was too rocky to dig ,
they made camp , pop warning them to be quiet , and we sat under the dining tent and were
the other way was to climb steeply up to the edge of the woods and then go across the top
“he’s dead in there , ” wilson said .
awfully good to have won the money , and a gin and tonic never tasted better to me in all
his shadow seemed to float down the stream with the current , unresisting , to his post under the bridge
the great american boy-men .
it was stiff and hard to lift out of the wagon .
you say you can’t eat sailfish but you won’t catch no sailfish in these channels .
“those specks of cork in it don’t matter , ” said nick .
he was going to bring it out in boston and had already sent his check to , and made a
" " sure , " jack says .
" " but how will they know it is an american uniform ?
“the hell there is .
' ' you ' re not making fun ?
” “do you want to come up and hear the game this afternoon ?
“look at them .
go above one hundred and four degrees .
all i could remember was the wonderful pair of horns we had seen in the game warden ' s office
i had the shot i had made on him to remember and nothing could take that away except that it
, the cousin of fontan , and she said to me , ‘en amérique il ne faut pas être catholique
” “no , ” the major said .
these scenes represent preliminary material for an early version of islands in the stream , which was published posthumously in
you know how , he said to himself , reading the ads .
internationals came up and took the line ahead of us .
" alice .
that was another good thing you paid for and then had .
" he knows we ' ll be happier if we don ' t get too good a look at these
but he was very fond of the sahara panorama .
and dropped down the channel with her .
“i know i forced you to take me .
" what are all the clocks for ?
damned strange people .
' i started to let the beer go down , saw the roman following the motion with his own throat
brett saw how something that was beautiful done close to the bull was ridiculous if it were done a little
, and through a dark gate into the tuileries .
sticks slipped in a rush down the slope .
' there was pop .
" i ' m going up the street and eat .
' ' with no one ?
the _gran maestro_ had sensed this was a private joke and had gone ; silently .
” “there was .
“don’t fool with those buttons .
“any dudes playing ?
" let ' s drink beer .
the mercenaries signed up for six months .
he had married on the rebound from the rotten time he had in college , and frances took him on
day’s foraging in the thicket .
“it’s good it blows us away from the sea , ” guy said .
he wants to have a big triumph this fall all by himself .
and m ' usuri in them , but now it seemed natural , no longer to be italicized , just
spear on him longer than your arm burst head and shoulders out of the water and smash at that mackerel
holding the pole and the line with the baited hook in his right hand he walked very carefully and gently
i’d have warned you about him but he seemed to have taken such a liking to you and i thought
but if he was in madrid he had to go there .
' do you think we should have one more montgomery ?
" consider them said , he thought .
' you look well , andrea , ' the colonel said .
” “i think they would .
if you hadn’t known him pretty well and if you hadn’t seen the terrain where he was going to attack
it was such a profound remark that i knew we had ordered too many bottles .
he turned out to be gay .
of the skull and the spine and then , twisting with the horns , swung the head loose and lifted
" i can get in , " he said .
when weren’t you always a moralist ?
' we ' ll put them into two lots and you draw from them , ' pop suggested , '
” “i read about it in the papers , ” retana said .
' that is what you should see .
“i didn’t have any right to ask you .
' a well-fed , gay capital .
nick climbed out onto the meadow and stood , water running down his trousers and out of his shoes ,
george laughed .
” said someone in the office .
" " i got a houseful .
the redoubt , and i thought about tolstoy and about what a great advantage an experience of war was to
i was pleased when anything was that simple .
" " we were sent here by the police , " the smallest one said .
he went to south america and worked in a bank .
i stopped to wipe the rain off my glasses and blew through the aperture in the rear sight of the
i will ask the porter to speak with you .
" " i ' d like to .
absolute concentration for a rush .
” “the more of a fool you are , ” he said .
big pistol in the holster under his armpit , the submachine guns opened on him from the darkened car .
the old man was crouched on top of the loads at the back , close under the roof .
somebody else was planting the last pair of banderillas .
we got some of the best fishing in the state of montana .
time at least , but he got another good one and they went off in a wind-lifted cloud of grey
that was whipped by the strong , cold wind from the mountains that sharpened all the outlines of buildings so
' the _gran maestro_ was gone and the girl said , ' he is a lovely man and i love
they were high in the sky and never more beautiful .
you liked to do many things and everything you wanted to do i did .
“go on , tell him the rest , ” said one .
" " take some more coffee , " i said .
its jaws were working convulsively in quick bites against the hook and it pounded the bottom of the skiff with
help me , felipe .
” “i’m all ready to go , ” his sister said .
to work was the only thing , it was the one thing that always made you feel good , and
with the lorry i carry labourers to the shamba of an indian .
but we won ' t think about that boy , lieutenant , captain , major , colonel , general ,
now is all right .
he didn’t like being away from his wife and the kids , and he was sore and grouchy most of
" i wish to hell i was a bankrupt .
how , how can he do that ?
his shirt and cut a length that was not quite as long as the willow stick and fastened it to
it was not a matter of their twenty-first birthday .
the oars are a good trick ; but it has reached the time to play for safety .
you ought to know that .
' ' yes , b ' wana , ' said the old man .
from his heart , or whatever is the centre of the body , and comes frankly and beautifully to the
” “those are funny names for indians .
montoya came up to our table .
" " i ' ll see you to-morrow ?
they don ' t know who you are any more .
of meat .
now what in hell were you going to do about a man who talked like that , wilson wondered .
others were hidden in the reeds and we heard the sharp , small , double report of p .
she laughed again .
' cola nodding and grunting as he saw the practicability of that , we glassed the opposite side of the
, davey .
as he left the lion roared again .
now as he looked down the river , the insects must be settling on the surface , for the trout
it’s worth a lot of money to him .
that story reflects great discredit on me .
” “that will be lovely , ” the girl said .
and this was friendly joking to what went on later .
it looked as though elephants had traveled it ever since the lava had cooled from the mountain and the trees
will try to lay it on the line in round , heavy , hard silver dollars or with the other
” “couldn’t you fix it up some way ?
they are dead .
it is a prose that has never been written .
, infantry , u .
naturally ask , and found he is being treated for i don ' t know how to spell the word
“want some ginger ale ?
" go on .
no riding in cars , the country broken up instead of the plains , and i was completely happy .
there was a tin bucket for carrying lake water to fill the reservoir and a granite bucket for well water
you wouldn’t of , ” frank said .
nick was a little embarrassed to sit there like that .
” “not so good .
the remainder for myself .
is he all right ?
behind the house were fields and behind the fields was the timber .
' don ' t kid me , ' karl said .
only i have no luck any more .
“will we go into the big town tonight ?
i ' ve always wanted to see bill knocked down .
” “you are quarrelling , ” the lady said .
“it was my fault , ” nick said .
he was happy .
' i lied a lot when i was a little girl .
his stetson hat that hung now from one of the pegs of the tent pole .
" if you aren ' t in with him , you might just as well go out and shoot yourself
“they’re through .
the beach and the curve of the shore .
i’ve never given it its proper importance .
you have , and you live life .
or don ' t tell it at all .
so i would make it an interview and finish it .
" they ' ll think he never trained .
” “that’s one interpretation of it .
' i wish that your mistress was here and we could have movement .
it was the bull .
" enormous .
” i don’t know , roger thought to himself .
' i don ' t know whether they can scent or not .
“hello my beauty .
' ' whose arms ?
but you cannot do it with so many people .
brett looked through the glasses .
a man like that mr .
the rest of his face had been burned and then tanned and then burned through the tan .
" asked madame .
what do you think would be good for me , portrait ?
the trouble is you ' re working on them where they are smart .
nick was excited .
" what shall we do about the car ?
_num_ st soldier—oh , they faded out .
he smiled his shy smile and said to his low-pitched voice , ' i am sorry you did not have
the bull could not charge without gathering his feet together .
” “how much ?
” “it’s way out and the wind has driven the water even further out .
" that we could start .
” “yes , ” said george , “that’s the way it is in california .
so long , kid .
' ' not any more .
i have no luck .
“pour moi , ” said johnson , “ça ne va pas .
" asked the count .
head to smother her , one comrade sometimes sitting upon the head .
' ' we are good friends , ' the colonel said .
i had thought he was a girl from his face for an instant when he first came up , as
” “maybe too .
that was the last day before the fiesta .
“you poor schatz , ” i said .
' ' do you love me ?
” “i’ll just step back and tell her to be patient .
john touched him on the shoulder .
” she handed helena the book .
sinclair lewis is nothing .
i was at the wheel and was working the edge of the stream opposite that old cement factory where it
" " he ought to sweat , " said hogan .
the negro was sitting opposite him beside ad .
hurry him or rattle him .
the young man unbuckled the leather shoulder holster and laid the big pistol by his leg .
i can still row and rogelio will throw the net .
she was not there , so i sat down and wrote some letters .
of hide hanging loose , wet and heavy from where the base of the skull had been severed from the
would not fall through .
the big mill building had all its machinery that was removable taken out and hoisted on board one of the
' ' i ' ll send it in the morning .
he was tall and thin .
" that was a good thing , too .
san pedro was a fisherman as was the father of the great dimaggio .
it came alive between his lips , his tongue pressing against it .
aloud he said , " i wish i had the boy .
“i’ll leave it open .
” “yes , ” jack says .
” he wrote in indelible pencil , tore out the slip and handed it to me .
when you know about it ?
john had said .
” the girl held the field glasses to her eyes .
" who said so ?
" " old bill , " i said .
“how do you like the railroad business , jimmy ?
you ' ve got no bloody business to be off .
' ' what about the moglie and the bambini ?
perhaps i didn ' t tell it right .
' that was fine .
then half a spiny lobster with mayonnaise , and a salad of lettuce and lentils .
, and was killed by pedro romero as the third bull of that same afternoon .
you tell them you ' ll go back and cook yourself .
it was a lovely day , not too hot , and the country was beautiful from the start .
it was then he knew the depth of his tiredness .
john’s store and get everything we need .
" a man can be destroyed but not defeated .
” “he’s a great drinker .
" " i didn ' t see him at all , " frank said .
” “my father killed a man .
and not be seen and make them bring the crashing thing close enough so he could make a rush and
” “look , ” said enrique .
but it doesn’t look so good .
hemingway’s aim was to convey vividly and exactly moments of exquisite importance and poignancy , experiences that might appropriately be
“have a drink .
nick adams had seen no one since he had left fornaci , although , riding along the road through the
isn ' t she a lovely girl ?
not since sunday .
“there he is .
“it was really just gaiety .
the doctor went to his office in a back room and brought a photograph which showed a hand that had
i ought to write the manual of minor tactics for the heavy pressure platoon , he thought .
i will have to try it another day , he thought .
the boy saw that the old man was breathing and then he saw the old man ' s hands and
to do it .
lion has something to say about that .
“you can’t hit anything on that side , ” he said .
then he saw him , very near , in the current , shaking his head , trying to get the
“good , ” said mr .
“no thanks , ” he answered and the german took it instead .
" au revoir , mademoiselle , " he said .
” “i don’t know , ” ad said .
the compass was the only friend i had , and the telephone was my life .
then you think there is something to my theory ?
“where were they in the woods ?
" " si , señor , " said the mexican , who was named cayetano ruiz .
we always went in the old days and there were still good places to go .
every once in a while the nigger would doze off and i was watching him , too .
" " oh , yes he was .
" see you at the lunch on wednesday .
" " don ' t talk like a fool , " i said .
“plenty , ” roger agreed .
" " yes , all right , " madame fontan said from the next room .
you don ' t know what this all means to me .
us across the open space where the gully that we could not see opened on to the head of the
any one who knows a foreign language in any country is damned liable to lie to you .
that ' s fine .
“good-bye , gentlemen all , ” george said .
“there , ” his father would say , “it’s your sister dorothy .
that’s cubans all right .
you’ve got to get back to the house .
he held the rod far out so that the hopper on the water moved into the current flowing into the
i ' ve just about cut it out .
” “from me , ” said the thin one , “he won two hundred and eleven dollars .
” “don’t neglect to insert the brandy , james , ” the first client said .
" " he ' s very good , ledoux , " mike said .
religion is the opium of the people .
the searchlight was full on her and she ran seeing only it , into its white , blinding eye .
“i loathed it .
i leaned way over the wall and tried to see into the cage .
" " must bathe .
he could see the evans boy .
the buffalo that he was after stayed in the daytime in a thick swamp where it was impossible to get
' arnaldo spoke guardedly into the mouthpiece of the telephone .
i tell you , he was pretty good in there today .
“he better watch out plenty , ” said billy .
holding his straw hat in both hands he started to run along the edge of the field toward the house
can it be anger , or the greater speed he makes that brings them out ?
he winked at me when the doctor examined his hand , which was between two leather straps that bounced up
” “how do you think it will last ?
from where you’re sitting your glasses make a blink that everybody on that hill can see .
she is a good companion and an admirable woman .
two .
the noise came again , ending this time like a blood-choked sigh .
' there are very big elephant in there , ' pop said .
' ' absolutely , and i get it all the time .
" let ' s have a look at him , " steinfelt said .
far away , beyond the river , were mountains .
there was nothing in the note , only good luck and that they were starting .
but , in yourself , you said that you would write about these people ; about the very rich ;
of game makes .
“the porter” is a scene from the same unfinished and untitled novel as “a train trip .
let ' s get something else to eat .
the dampened , mud-weighted cape swung open and full as a sail fills , and romero pivoted with it just
on the other side of the town , game was to leave from the gritti and make the rialto by
his trousers rolled up , measuring the skeleton with a length of line .
the end of the day never made him think of him .
palazzos ; or if no one lived there now , knowing to what use the different places had been put
then he goes away to work in the oil-fields and brings home this indienne that weighs right then one hundred
could do about it , at least for a while , and maybe never , but that anyway it was
it ' s the caffeine in it .
we’ve narrowed down on the corridor that runs up into university city .
leave the key .
_gran maestro_ !
but when we came up to where it had jumped there were no other tracks .
i held the rifle in one hand for him to look through the breech and then put the bolt back
“you people from hollywood .
i have all those prayers i promised if i caught the fish , he thought .
' ' i ' m getting exercise , ' i said .
heard of , and stating as facts certain apocryphal incidents familiar to all soldiers .
all the port holes were shut that you could see going along over her but way down below near the
on her beam ends .
looking back , the town of marseilles and the harbor with stone hills behind it and the last of the
wait while i ring for some beer .
" " don ' t do it .
the same tracks we had followed led , logically and with no possibility of doubt , from the road to
" " fear for his soul .
" " how old was i when you first took me in a boat ?
i just feel better afterwards .
” “i don’t want to go in there , ” said macomber .
he’s liable to be in this room right now .
when he came back nick was looking at his plate .
" i have not wished to open the container until you were ready .
service in _num_ and that same year he was sent to china , shanghai--he staid three years--and came home--he was
“that’s the peat , ” bill said .
each time he enters into the terrain of the bull he is in great danger .
too expensive .
“i could never learn it .
while it is , perhaps , legitimate to deal with these self-designated citizens in a natural history of the dead
bootblacks opened the street door and each one bill called over and started to work on mike .
' ' there must have been a world of ducks outside .
' ' rather , ' said pop .
” “nothing to eat .
it’s supposed to be wide open .
” “i did not ask that .
across the open mouth of the tent nick fixed cheesecloth to keep out mosquitoes .
by those who got really aroused although he never knew anyone to pay their bills after a camp meeting or
besides i have never married .
she can talk up there .
” “run along , ” said the chef .
m ' cola shook his head without smiling but followed .
you can get the train up from there to-night .
" he ' s a fine boy , don ' t you think so ?
i’ll go back now .
" we ' re talking bulls .
he’d bled a little on the stern from his nose and his mouth , and i dipped a bucket of
" perico gave it to me at the bodega , " he explained .
i knew plenty more had to come through and i paced the distances back from the road to the two
” “i don’t really need medicine yet , ” the girl said .
' please , ' she said , from almost underneath the blanket .
we waited till he got one leg over and then potted him .
" " don ' t think about it , signor tenente .
" that irishman could never sleep .
then mrs .
when you came round the shoulder of the mountain to trust these sable to stay where they were and ,
" all in good time , doctor , " doc fischer said .
please don’t try and keep anything from me .
wants to drive us out to dinner to-morrow night .
they’re willow grouse .
' ' we should have fought in flanders in the old days .
i had the sights on the buck as he tore away , remembered about the worthless meat , and having
the gypsy moved in a zigzag , and as he passed , the bull caught sight of him and abandoned
“how many of my unfortunate compatriots could your boat accommodate ?
” “let’s stop talking about it .
you can hear all of them i know .
i looked at her , seeing her quilted blue robe in the firelight now , and the light on her
if there had been no law i would have shot garrick and they would all have hunted or cleared out
” “no , ” said mr .
what if i do ?
its lights and tables to the select .
“in the gaiety , with the singing , he became gay too .
" " that was edna , " bill said .
if you do not sleep you might become unclear in the head .
they laughed .
” “for me it is a good way to speak , ” said the tall one .
one morning the doctor wanted to show mr .
roger thought .
” “all right , signor tenente .
” we had gotten the elevator stopped at my floor and were walking down the hall .
i swam down and took hold of the edge of the port hole with my fingers and held it and
" " have her come out .
and have better contacts for what she considered her profession , or her art .
their color was not gone yet .
i took a drink of the whisky and water and looked at the two pairs of kudu horns that leaned
“no , thanks , ” said hogan .
' better men than i am do it , i thought .
wind to warn everything .
" " he ' s a good man , " i said .
i wish to hell they didn ' t have any right .
several boys shouted at brett .
that may mean anytime .
“better get one , ” said a man in a derby hat .
on an italian liner ; whichever one is best then .
' ' i think the one on the right .
" " already we paid seven hundred fifty-five dollars in fines when they arrested fontan .
of the ocean where he hoped to find fish .
after they went out of sight a great roar came from the bull-ring .
' ' the lion-hearted , ' the girl said , accepting the situation without even a glance , and playing
retana said nothing but looked at manuel from a long way off .
we lived .
it was quite a way down to the main road and then we walked along the main road about a
except the infantry .
send a girl off with one man .
' not a thing .
he went out slow .
“i’ll tell you , you yellow-livered chicago bastard .
' ' you are quite correct .
he found he liked to talk through a sheet .
“fuentes , ” the gypsy said .
” “oh let’s not talk about him .
he tried to get up .
' ' stop it , ' p .
maybe much more .
i could not believe we had suddenly come to any such wonderful country .
” “what nonsense , ” the manager said .
” “haven’t i done my work ?
that was a hell of a shot you made on him though , brother .
i’ll surprise you .
belmonte was no longer well enough .
" you go around on the other side of the counter with your boy friend .
“let’s see the rest of it .
" " went back to cologne .
until all of those fiats started coming down over , past and under me and i realized that my trusty
cloth to follow with at little , almost imperceptible , jerk that so offended the critical judgment of the biarritz
” “i didn’t say that , ” evans said .
the neighbors who , at night , when some one lay drunk in the street , moaning and groaning in
it is more important than anything he can do .
' maria , some beer , ' he says , ' for god ' s sake .
why do you interrupt me ?
' ' yes , you told me .
henry van dyke .
” “i couldn’t cut it like a sunday-school boy .
“did they know it was watched ?
one of the bullets hit the big nerve that goes down through his thigh and that leg is paralyzed .
went up the grassy bank on the far side , getting soaked to the waist as we stooped going through
he sensed it before he knew it .
it did not seem like a very long ride .
" at a thousand duros apiece , " he said to me in spanish .
, moving with the crowd between the lines of booths .
" just us three .
her eyes crinkled up as we came up to the table .
so she woke him when she came in , wilson thought , looking at them both with his flat ,
" you like cigars ?
" " was the letter you got monday--from her ?
look at anatole france .
he felt the sword buckle as he shoved it in , leaning his weight on it , and then it
there was no wind and we knew that when the breeze came up it would be from the east and
" " i got hurt in the war , " i said .
now the bad time is coming and i do not even have the harpoon .
' we sat in the shade of the dining tent and i told them .
“it was the arab reminded me of it .
“how’s it go ?
“they’re gone now .
“hell of a good bull , ” his brain registered automatically .
and work day-times in the glass factories in that next island you see on beyond with the other campanile ,
" do you want to eat ?
' too dark to shoot unless we ' re right on him .
heavy on the shoulder , and where they ran that great run down the glacier above the madlener-haus , the
the red shaft of the banderillas tossed as he jumped .
but he had that look of eager , deserving expectation .
you lose the taste .
" " the hell you have .
then it moved slowly nearer , unmistakable now , louder and louder until , agonizing in a clank of loud
the beer was not good and i had a worse cognac to take the taste out of my mouth .
life was so simple in france .
he ' s covered everywhere you can hurt him .
' have you heard from our leader , _the reverend one_ ?
” the wife stood sullenly .
, commanded five thousand dollars as the price of endorsing , with photographs , a beauty product which she had
' good masai , ' m ' cola said , very moved .
” “aren’t you going to stay up for that kid ?
tabeshaw said .
" hello , kid , " the big man said .
listen , hank , they aren’t what we thought they were though .
perhaps he wasn’t .
at the juncture of the rue denfert-rochereau with the boulevard is a statue of two men in flowing robes .
” “was it a kid ?
the roman was not back yet .
" where were they in the woods ?
“how are you comrade ?
“do you remember when we barred those phrases ?
it is easy when you are beaten , he thought .
what’s the matter ?
do you hear me ?
” “i’ll be at the perla , ” i told him .
“do you not see how our interests coincide ?
that’s the way to talk , ” al said .
to get on to this fine road that they were rolling on now which led straight to venice .
as many newly pressed tracks of lesser kudu .
" and you think then we ' ll be all right and be happy .
she pressed close against him .
” “that early ?
but you cannot hold us responsible for your noble sentiments .
” “no , don’t encourage me .
" " no , " he said .
they had beautiful burying grounds in the mountains , war in the mountains is the most beautiful of all war
and hammer it into shape and put a whetstone to it , and know that i had something to write
we stopped the car at the edge of the bush and getting out and sitting down with the glasses saw
the plate .
there’s only room for one .
i want to ask him some things .
the green lantern and the widow woman and regal beer .
from the moment the first bull burst into the ring he was overwhelmed by the experience and left the scene
' have them look at the lorry to-morrow .
the first one that hit that blood spoor would stay with it until he found him .
” “you’re the doctor , ” hogan says .
his back was as blue as a sword fish ' s and his belly was silver and his hide was
they were beautifully colored and firm and hard from the cold water .
our guest hung out on the turns and nearly pulled the top-heavy car over .
well why shouldn’t it be ?
they both knew together when they were a lieutenant and a sergeant .
" " it ' s a lie , " said bill .
the family has a choice .
after about four rounds jack has him bleeding bad and his face all cut up , but every time walcott
the screen door slammed behind him .
" " it ' s good , " i said .
“i am , however , wearing the uniform .
“was it billy tabeshaw ?
” “he doesn’t prefer the newer numbers ?
i read aloud from howard pyle ' s _book of pirates_ ; but i could see he was not following
we were all watching it closely as it came nearer , so very overcrowded .
“yes bwana .
i guess my older brother has that , he thought .
i know the place is cold and their wages are inadequate and what fuel costs .
" where do you want to eat ?
she’s used to lots of milk , too , and sweet things .
suddenly the bull left off and made for the other steer which had been standing at the far end ,
time comes , i mean— i’ll climb right up with him .
” “it was further on .
there was no doorway leading from the room except into the kitchen .
along and he thought i was pretty wonderful , too .
that boy .
she saw wilson as she had seen him the day before when she had first realized what his great talent
the same fashion .
he had not seen zurito .
' ' you believe it ?
i was elated .
” “is all right .
my god , yes , that ' s true .
” “will the headman distribute it ?
his hand came away wet .
' ' also , ' she said suddenly and un-maskingly , ' i want to be like you .
she walked a little way along the station platform , but she stayed near the steps of the car because
sometime we film a successful attack .
the hills punished him and he did not believe in the flats .
” holbrook looked down at my old man and said slow and careful , “you son of a bitch ,
the houses were white , and in the streets the men , in their sunday clothes , were playing bowls
or maybe it is that the full moon brings him feed .
there was an ant-hill ahead and we climbed the furrowed clay and from the top looked all around .
" all is forgiven since you know i am the boss .
bill and the ghee were in the front seat , tired from the long swim .
' that ' s the first thing people notice about me .
it was good to be in bed , sheets , stretching out full length , dipping his head in the
_num_ d soldier—wasn’t i standing right by her ?
and drank his drink .
” marjorie dropped the line overboard and watched the baits go down through the water .
there was a shower , a toilet and a washbowl with a mirror .
that were coloured like the trailing filaments and swam between them and under the small shade the bubble made as
a little late .
and what is a tough boy , he asked himself .
contractors ' boys go , because our coats leaked .
then if we get them , we ' ll have time to go on down in that handeni country for
car through , we were on the bank of a stream , where there was a sort of brushy bridging
the chauffeur stopped .
in the good weather there was always an artist with his easel .
adam’s-appled german i knew who was working at the censorship and two other people i did not know .
the colonel proceeded to his room accompanied by the boy who carried his bag .
told me a little about it .
” in a few minutes sister cecilia came into the room .
” the woods were gone ; the road had left the river to climb ; the radiator was boiling ;
' no , my colonel , ' the boy said .
they died from little wounds as rabbits die sometimes from three or four small grains of shot that hardly seem
and driving it down again and again .
“girls never got a man anywhere .
that is a very great compliment .
' he was very gentle and he could tell what was in your mind , forgive you for it ,
" why don ' t you get married , you two ?
“where he’s headed now is pretty good going but we’ll have to climb .
then there was the distant , heavy boom of a native black powder gun and the buck jumped and almost
” “say it .
ismet ' s still around though .
there was an electric light in his eyes .
il ne faut pas manger à l’hôtel ou au restaurant .
” “give me the gun , ” fontan said .
' ' please don ' t be rough in talking , ' the girl said .
” “take it easy , ” the man said quietly .
and he was damned beautiful .
everything , the skischule money and all the season’s profit and then his capital .
cloud and watch them from the trainers’ and jockeys’ stand .
i swam back to the surf and coasted in , face down , on a big roller , then turned
” then he went back and lay down again .
i give very much of a damn myself .
he was through with the grapefruit .
see how it is ?
or , ' he added , ' will make every reasonable attempt to attain that objective .
" how ' d you feel that way about dogs so sudden ?
" at six-fifty-five george said : " he ' s not coming .
dirt road , with the swift flowing canal beside it , and the thick hedge beyond .
his style had become oldfashioned before he had ever succeeded in endearing himself to the public through his virtues ,
" i have to and you know it .
" i knew they couldn ' t beat our lady , " she said .
, she can tell you what month it is .
he felt the horn go into the sand between his folded arms .
chapter ix as colonel cantwell stepped out of the door of the gritti palace hotel he came out into the
the president of the council was in lyons making a speech , or , rather he was on his way
and it made him feel sick .
each day i sweated out whatever we drank sitting at the fire at night , and in the heat of
there was no change in wilson .
porters .
i think i ' ll go to san sebastian .
he looked up and smiled .
the sword at the spot high up between the bull’s shoulders .
the worst , he said , were the women with dead babies .
manuel had jerked clear as the sword jumped .
" what ' s the matter ?
” he said , offering the match to retana .
very nice men .
over it and it wouldn’t make any trouble .
i’m crazy .
don’t pay any attention , darling , to what i say .
there was only the old sun-melted snow and the ice , and from a long way away it shone very
" he was an old man , as brown as the others , with the stubble of a white beard
nobody ought to have a right to say things about mike .
when she saw the wagon coming down the road she felt weak and sick sort of inside .
“the sleep was what i needed .
“women upset , ” said wilson to the tall man .
a failed bullfighter .
campbell and lady ashley .
they are moving out too fast and too far .
who wanted to know the answers .
' you ' re pretty pleased with it yourself , ' p .
he went to the window and looked out .
remember , he said to himself .
the other girl had a headache and had gone to bed .
' the girl had been quiet and a little withdrawn , since she had seen alvarito .
it said in black’s to avoid all alcohol .
of a business man on the way to his office in the city and , as they spoke in rapid
' i ' m crazy about it , ' i said .
kamau was very modest , quiet , and an excellent driver , and now , as we came out of
“this is ridiculous .
his leather coat was dirty and greasy , his eyes were hollow and he needed a shave .
there were wild strawberries growing on the sunny side of the ridge in a little clearing in the trees .
' ' several times , ' i said .
he tried five times and the crowd was quiet because it was a good bull and it looked like him
hell with this walking .
writers who had not seen it were always very jealous and tried to make it seem unimportant , or abnormal
" " you ' re three to one to be a saint .
there wasn’t any answer .
since you are now a member of this learned profession i advise you , in the name of humanity ,
it was one hundred and two and four tenths .
it had been a good country and we had made a mess of it and i would go , now
" some encierro , " bill said .
' pop said .
bradley , the schoolmaster , and many others .
also , he had always had a great tolerance which seemed the nicest thing about him if it were not
he had been sleepy now for a long time and as he watched the two men he knew that sleepiness
she loved him as always , but she realized now it was only a boy and girl love .
a clean , well-lighted place it was late and every one had left the café except an old man who
” “i’d do anything for you .
“mangez du fromage .
in the woodcutter’s house with the big square porcelain stove that filled half the room , and they slept on
' je n ' ai jamais compris ce que c ' est qu ' un polack .
it’s a drink .
o .
he had a very gay , brown face , and shooter’s eyes , and i wondered what he was passing
i should have some luck .
we went to bed early and in the night it rained a little , not a real rain but a
he certainly looked bad .
man said .
i’ve been throbbing all night .
gene tunney did and he was the champion of the world .
“no swim , ” one chink said .
to the other dead , who were not dead in their youth of choice , who owned no magazines ,
” “i am very truly sorry .
and then he kissed her .
he had put the two in the back seat out of his mind now and was thinking about buffalo .
you can ' t fight a lick any more with your hands and you didn ' t have any weapon
ahead , at the end of the slough of reeds the banks narrowed and the branches of the big trees
' ' you always say that and i don ' t know what it means but i like to hear
, and then something came out of the pack right into my glasses like a horseheaded yellow streak and everybody
i know he ' s not a beet worker .
the little man looked across at us but did not seem to recognize us .
in the shadow of the tree , behind the darkened car from which the searchlight played , there was a
it was very intimate and you could hear the thin tragic noise the bicycles made when they went over onto
he could feel he was inside the current now and he could see the lights of the beach colonies along
' check on my guns and pack this stuff in a way to give the maximum space in the rear
“i’m not scared , nickie .
nick got the lunch from over the hemlock .
the attack was being made by an international brigade .
" sitting out on the terraces of the lilas brett ordered a whiskey and soda , i took one ,
nick poured out the liquor .
she pressed tight in against the curve of his abdomen .
“i’m nervous .
“maybe , ” mrs .
then been boiled , slightly , in oil .
" i had a swell time .
he hung the pack up on the nail .
" one , " he answered .
it was a torcello boy who was running arms into alexandria , who located the body of st .
you go to sleep , littless .
they kill little but make much fear .
then you must get a hair-cut .
” his mother shook her head .
” “you know maybe we ought to stay tomorrow .
“oh !
the air was still smoky and all up the street it smelled of high explosive and blasted granite .
' chapter vii the bar was just across from the lobby of the gritti , although lobby the colonel thought
_] that ' s a nice little wine .
you wouldn ' t like to re-deal would you , dealer ?
that is what is happening when she screams .
he wore when washing the tunic , were the only garments i ever saw on the old man until he
" did i talk out loud just then ?
” “i may not be going , ” said the young gentleman putting his purse back in his pocket .
” when mr .
last for me .
make sure of him .
droopy was laughing .
mother and her every day and i made up ways that i was going to speak to her and i
" what ?
” “put him in the game book as a collabo , ” i said .
' ' towards the piazza .
” “aren’t you hungry ?
" " these basques are swell people , " bill said .
he said he would go attend to it that afternoon when he went to town .
” “what are you talking about ?
he just hasn ' t got anything inside any more .
” “true ?
max watched the mirror and the clock .
he hit me and i sat down on the pavement .
“and it doesn’t show .
that is what kills the eyes .
we must think of what there is to do .
” “you gentlemen are friends of cayetano ?
a pair of scissors and something to sew with and lorna doone and swiss family robinson .
still he could always go into town saturday night .
” “what do you think the little one made that trouble for ?
" go over and say you ' re sorry , " john says into his ear .
go and play baseball .
he wrote me one of the most interesting and significant letters right after the incident .
there was sufficient light and he had been wasting electricity for nearly an hour .
then he turned him over and skinned the other side and cut each side off from the head down to
elliot and the girl friend now slept together in the big mediæval bed .
' in the vehicle without the shock-absorbers .
" i paid and went out and along the street back to the wine-shop .
by this time i was wishing i had not stopped into chicote’s but had gone straight on home where you
in the sunlight on the other side they looked much lighter and the one i ' d shot looked lighter
“what you going to do with us afterward ?
make yourself do it and devise some simple and sure way about the lines .
so , he thought , and he felt himself going before he started ; i will try it once again
they were all dancing in time behind their own fifers and drummers .
there were no bees now and he refused to use the foreign word for this wind .
the decisions .
that was all .
i was going to sleep that night .
" let me do it , " i said .
“number _num_ , mr .
four legs , the head hanging down .
the trout quivered , rigid .
if i can fix it so that i get an even break , that ' s all i want .
the personages of this establishment were rigidly selectioned .
they tried to hold him up against the wall but he sat down in a puddle of water .
in twenty years of observation in civil life i had never seen a dead mule and had begun to entertain
oh harry !
” “he never shows anything , ” i said .
no , ” she said .
" oh , it ' s been gone a long time now .
you do not have that spear on your head for nothing .
then remembered to add , ' please .
“i don’t need them , ” said al .
' if i had one good dog , ' i thought .
" how are you , jake ?
but the hell with him .
she went downstairs and we heard the stairs creaking .
” “tell me they aren’t any good any more , ” said the flyer .
don’t worry .
' i never would have thought it .
it isn’t any fun to be a poor kitty out in the rain .
not to have been bombed .
blackie , him that’s blindy now , and this other boy willie sawyer , and they were slugging and kneeing
' ' nobody shares this trade with anybody , ' the colonel told her .
talking ' s all bilge .
where you from ?
now , get out of here .
” “you won’t leave me .
then you can bathe .
” “you saw it .
" " anis del toro .
” at the pebbly shallow stretch he caught two small trout .
" " yes , " said johnson .
out in the ring the bull stood quiet , looking at nothing .
jewels .
but it was doubtful .
" you stay out of it .
seemed attractive or practical and that was the sum total of direct sexual knowledge bequeathed him by his father except
" i don ' t think i can eat an entire one , " he said and drew his knife
” “don’t stay away an awfully long time though .
" they had backed up another cage into the entrance .
" oh , my christ , " she said .
” “i’m going to try for five thousand .
as we trailed , slowly , the ground , hard now as the sun had baked it , the blood
' ' what do you want , daughter ?
' anyway , not after he fought all those rear-guard actions coming back from that big russian town .
” “well , i wish you wouldn’t ride me about it , ” doctor wilcox said .
she is of very good family .
his shoulders he walked along the road that paralleled the railway track , leaving the burned town behind in the
' it ' s a god-damn flat country to fight in , ' the driver said .
you should not attack an armored vehicle while it was moving , but if he braked i could hit him
' ' and we would throw the empty fiascos at the station guards from the troop trains ?
“i’ll try one with the m- _num_ , ” i said .
back in the town i went to the café to have a second coffee and some buttered toast .
“you don’t smoke ?
the major leaned his head back on the rucksack and smiled .
“my heart’s slow .
why did he keep on taking it like that ?
” bill said .
cipriani would loan me the money .
” “put your hand across the lower back .
“don’t you trust me ?
” “it wasn’t all solemn .
" " what did you get ?
" " will you register , please ?
the trumpet had blown to change the act to the planting of the banderillas while manuel had been working with
what if brett did sleep with you ?
” “you’re a nice fellow , ” said captain willie .
but he liked this macomber now .
" " would you do something for me now ?
of him in their memories by looking at the lithographs .
do you have money ?
and they were handing drinks over a crowd that was three deep at the bar .
in the cool night and went to bed and she felt as over-ripe as she looked but smooth , rose-petal
and now economics is the opium of the people ; along with patriotism the opium of the people in italy
she said , ' please , richard .
“can one ?
with this in your pocket ?
" i feel fine , " she said .
clear with writing as you might wipe a blackboard clear with a sponge or a wet rag ; and i
" thank you , ma ' am .
almost the same place we had seen the rhino the night before .
you only have to take one look at it .
you ought to get out and stay out .
” andré went out the door .
the café did not make this same noise at any other time , no matter how crowded it was .
” “it was a first class breakfast .
when the athletics were at bat i was praying right out loud : ' oh , lord , direct their
” “marie va chercher de la bière , ” fontan said .
” “it will be wonderful when we’re out there and you can work .
got my elbows settled and my right toe pushing the ground and squeezed off on the centre of the bull
the heat from the fire was baking his legs .
“very much .
he went by .
the trees seem as though their leaves were never quite dry .
' i hope that is the correct diction .
” “you’ll see .
he was indignant .
what do you want me to do ?
" i ' m sorry , manolo , but i ' m not pic-ing .
he was a good , solid horse , solid on his legs .
nobody said anything .
why didn ' t you let me look after it ?
" no , sir .
' ' there were three , ' karl said .
i wasn’t trained for it and i haven’t any talent .
” “i’m going home with edwin henry , ” the girl said .
with musettes and water bottles and the cameras , we all sweating in the sun , pop and i with
he stood up and walked to the front of the house and , keeping in the shadow and the shelter
” “what is the matter with this war ?
when i stopped her out in the gulf and she began to roll a little with the swell it woke
” “we can make it while we drive .
t have to .
many , many people are helping me now .
' no second , third or fourth vice-consuls to-day , arnaldo .
, cider mills and dams and always with open fires .
it was the end of the summer and they were both tanned , so that they looked out of place
" " do you think it will do any good ?
" " that ' s what you wanted , wasn ' t it ?
subdue the big fish when they were brought alongside .
ornamental killing , no killing to kill , only when you wanted it more than you wanted not to kill
please please dear jesus .
or you can shoot me .
damned strange fellow .
i stopped and yelled at pop , ' hear him ?
could turn the fish .
and we must go now .
got to send some mexicans up to see poor cayetano .
flew only a little way and lit in the willows and with its crested head on one side looked down
she had beer in another paper sack .
it’s not the horses’ fault .
" " les polacks sont catholiques , " fontan said .
there was an old man drinking coffee at a table under the clock and reading the evening paper .
he had his hand on somebody ' s shoulder .
" nick came down the slope , holding the helmet in his hands .
at his master while he was putting dishes on the table he snapped at him in swahili .
" i banged on the glass .
and up the slope toward the big farmhouse lay the casualties of the attack like many scattered bundles on the
they seem blown tight enough to burst .
it’s our good friend , ” he said .
” the prizefighter asked .
if you ' re tight , go to bed .
figure him as our next president if you want him .
like zizi the greek duke .
” “how do you like it ?
the negro from cienfuegos in the first match .
" i always keep my appointments .
came around the corner , all dancing .
water , but always bringing him in .
it made him seem older .
tree burst wounds hit men where they would never be wounded in open country .
they were the tallest , best-built , handsomest people i had ever seen and the first truly light-hearted happy people
' it was daylight before they reached the oaken-staved hogshead sunk in the bottom of the lagoon .
meat and try for an oryx .
mister francis , ” the negro’s voice soothed .
he bent over the indian woman .
he got it with a lucky gouge .
they would have to come up from catalonia and take it .
" how do i know this ?
a thing which appears of so small importance , look with unconcern upon the situation and suffering of creatures formed
the baby wants to be born and she wants it to be born .
with his mouth shut and his tail straight up and down we sail like brothers .
' ' i ' m really glad he has him , ' i said truly .
“no , ” i said .
" i worked on my book .
“what was the blood like ?
in the night the american lady lay without sleeping because the train was a rapide and went very fast and
let go the sheet so that the skiff would swing broadside and bring the shark out from under .
hotel .
and that lady , that lady there is some one .
” the hired girl looked at the local warden .
" have you ever been there ?
as in other fields .
they just brought you a bottle of wine and you took your chances .
i’ll run her up into the garrison bight and if they’re going to take her they’ll take her .
headquarters of the party written in indelible pencil and saying here was a comrade who had suffered very much under
” “i believe .
human part of him which was left , and which he did not realize was still there—he was hurt deeply
” the little man said to the sergeant .
showing only their flanks through the trunks of the trees and said they were kudu bulls .
” the porter brought a truck and piled on the baggage , and my wife said good-by and i said
" can i go out to get sardines for you for tomorrow ?
“there’s always a chance , ” he said .
now , who had the most money of all , who had all the money there was , who had
' ' and what do you want ?
" his wife whispered to him and joe laughed .
bed we had looked down on from the game trail .
" they talked again and then the innkeeper came over to our table .
' m ' cola swears you hit him .
i ' ll be at the crillon at five .
nick came up the ladder .
i looked at his bald black skull and he turned his face a little so that i saw the thin
the fish righted himself and swam off again slowly with the great tail weaving in the air .
' _hapana_ , b ' wana !
the silk-worms fed in racks of mulberry leaves and all night you could hear them eating and a dropping sound
" mark you .
i have even had a very small look into it .
he took his ulcers day by day , and his heart the same way .
" shrimps ?
" when i ' m bigger i ' ll shoot the muskrats and the jack-rabbits too , " he said
too damned much of it .
“you can’t tell .
he reached in the drawer for a paper .
want to get dressed and come down ?
well he used the vilest language of course when he was resisting the treatment but he apologized to me in
he shoots me twice in the belly .
" " they have them beaten , " frazer said .
' ' maybe ten , ' the colonel said .
” then i saw him coming from behind under water .
specialist and his son were trying to send up fire balloons .
” “when we hunt in wyoming the picket pin gophers and the prairie dogs are holed up already .
the other things his world dealt in , and about his wife not leaving him .
another girl came in from the kitchen .
i must get him alongside this time , he thought .
” “it’s ours .
you ' re sure to .
' ' then you are happy ?
” “you’re right i said it , ” said the tall waiter .
" i don ' t know , " she said .
i glanced over .
“it’s terrible , ” said claude .
we came up to it , lying in the rocks , a large , deep chestnut-brown animal , almost black
” “where ?
outside on the square it had stopped raining and the moon was trying to get through the clouds .
" " you probably did .
” asked frank .
next morning i tipped every one a little too much at the hotel to make more friends , and left
an hour he saw sand key light , straight , thin and brown , rising out of the sea right
a good small room .
couple of porters , and to that end we put him in the crotch of a tree .
married .
you could sum up their attitude in this phrase , ' don ' t ---- me , jack .
as we came out , after several long circles in the woods to find places where we could get the
" " we could walk up to the pantheon and get one .
they wouldn ' t do it .
in the back room .
" when you talk like that i don ' t hear you , " the boy said with dignity to
later on in the evening i found the box in my pocket .
but here it is , daughter , on the telephone and later i will put in the sounds and smells
" they were both beet workers , a mexican and a russian , and they were sitting drinking coffee in
but don’t you start taking care of me or thinking i’m worried or anything because i’m not .
" drink this .
" that big dinge took him by surprise .
we tried one as a porter .
slope of the bank .
_num_ st soldier—try some of the red .
” “uh , huh .
' but you ' re no credit to your town .
the colonel said , ' who is that spiritual character ?
” “too damn long , ” john said .
” “you were saying about sliding .
jack doesn’t say anything .
he gave us his card , with his address in london and his club and his business address , and
with the second-growth timber solid beyond it .
” “that’s right , ” he said .
my father ' s office .
” “wait till we eat them , ” nick told her .
' ' he thinks you ' re very funny , ' pop said .
i wouldn ' t know .
“you’re ten years older than i am .
“it couldn’t be better , ” i told him .
at the corner table , renata said , ' do you think we hurt his feelings ?
” “absolutely , ” said harris .
" what ' s the idea ?
but he didn’t look at me as though he wanted to kill me .
it ' s harder to do than my first book .
" il est catholique , " she said .
jackson , ' dan said .
" " globos illuminados , " mike said .
' ' maji-moto .
i’ll tell her i’m in some trouble with the game wardens and that they’re looking for me and i have
' yes , it is true .
red , ” claude said .
” “did you always like making love ?
t have to get up before first light and wear long-horned underwear .
we had come , but we decided , like fools , to grade straight across the mountainside below the edge
now into the room came the great authority , and drawing up one of the empty chairs , seated himself
“it’s hell , isn’t it ?
” he did not say anything and she looked at him and put her hand out again .
” nick and his sister followed her outside .
she often came in when he was in bed and asked him to tell her about the war , but
' ' no , ' he told her , not rough , but to make her understand truly .
since it was she who had been doing the thinking .
you going to be a writer you ought to get in on it early .
, started to choke , barely recovered , and lowered the bottle .
" " aw , he wasn ' t out , " hogan said .
it was a hungry cat , quite nice looking , basically .
the fish had turned silver from his original purple and silver , and the stripes showed the same pale violet
” “you , ” i said , “with your mouth .
that cow .
“i am in a mood to drink champagne wine out of glasses with cigarette butts in them .
beautiful and slimmer and better muscled and shinier and more lovely than all the others .
ahead of his troops , and the titles of all such books should be generals usually die in bed ,
he could hear the men talking and he waited , gathering all of himself into this preparation for a charge
“do you remember when they got going that once before they had the train wreck ?
and in that poverty , and in that quarter across the street from a boucherie chevaline and a wine cooperative
' ' valhalla , i can remember .
and sucked toward us by the propeller and then we were past the point and when i looked back the
hindu ' s general store , where he smiled at us in well-oiled , unsuccessful-storekeeping , brotherly humanity , and
take what easy ?
i couldn’t even send a wire .
“they’re back in the corrals fighting about who gets the beautiful horses , ” hernandez grinned .
' ' i never thought you wanted presents of hard stones .
" i just know things .
” we stopped in front of a frame house .
noise clink in my ears but it wouldn’t break and i had to come up .
“no , sir , ” i said , and i dug down in the ice to get him a cold
' he ' s getting me very depressed .
“can i have another ?
the skiff was still shaking with the destruction the other shark was doing to the fish and the old man
' ' and take me in gondolas and to lovely places in the country .
i looked back and his bait was trolling nice , just bouncing along on the swell and the two teasers
face again .
it on the ground , shook it , then put the liver and kidneys inside it and with the knife
except to cross the canal in the places where there are no bridges .
she was quiet now and her eyes were closed .
“probably four or five times your life , he says , ” david’s father told him .
" hello , you chaps !
he talked about it a little .
i could not contemplate the delicate conformation of its roots , leaves and capsules without admiration .
guys would come by selling funny rabbits that jumped if you squeezed a bulb and they’d come up to us
" " how about wetzel ' s ?
we’ll feed good .
two ; i hide behind this thing which does not cover my left flank .
but you do not say that you buy sausages for a dog in italy where the worst crime is to
he heard the bird fly out of the cage and then he heard him sing in one of the laurel
ay !
but i took the liberty of just bringing these roses .
” “would you like to have it explained ?
" well , " i said , " i ' ve got to go up-stairs and get off some cables
crab , and the bull coming , nose out , mouth tight closed , blood dripping , massive head straight
this was a very fancy café before the war and this used to cost five pesetas when there were only
the trumpeter , up under the roof , blew for the final act , and manuel walked across the arena
, saw it fold in flight and drop among the decoys in the broken ice .
" don ' t know how it happened .
' of course , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
i uncovered the big silver piece with the profile of alfonso xiii as a baby showing .
that was the phrase for it when a safari went bad .
if you said certain things .
jim held her tight hard against the chair and she wanted it now and jim whispered , “come on for
” “if i’m a mossback what’s he ?
but i still kept the gun on my belt .
i must hold his pain where it is , he thought .
he did not know whether we knew brett had been with him at san sebastian , and it made him
the nigger was going out of his head , or becoming religious because he was hurt ; anyway he was
“yes , man .
' the colonel asked the _gran maestro_ .
” “why don’t you try it .
through the woods they could see a long , low-eaved , weather-beaten building .
it was the old man of the first day , the old farmer , but now he was gotten up
' i ' ve read this before , ' pop said .
how did i let the fish cut me with that one quick pull he made ?
but that had all started a year or more after that last summer .
" go in there , you slob , " he says .
when the doctor came he took the boy’s temperature .
' ' strictly the epworth league .
i wonder if he cried , too ?
“ready , ” he said in that low , hoarse voice that did not belong to a small boy .
" the waitress went away and johnson lit a cigarette and drank the coffee .
he believed it to be an accident .
' we went over to the lick .
ground and up onto his woolen sock .
“i think you misjudge him , ” his father said and they had left it there .
then sole for you and for my lady a mixed grill .
" you can let the cord go , hand , and i will handle him with the right arm alone
the waiter shouted to them .
” “go on , sergeant .
" " got to go home , " nick said .
on the third cup pop , watching , smoking his pipe , said , ' too early for me to
” “would a fire show across to the hills ?
come in .
” the chef put the ham and eggs on two plates .
i say , it is a spectacle !
' ' emerson , hawthorne , whittier , and company .
“it’s not going so good .
he looked up .
“he’s a good fellow , soldier .
“let’s talk about my mermaid .
i really have confidence in him .
i have not meant to be intrusive .
" what would you like , sir ?
that was the last shark of the pack that came .
" " everything but work .
wheeler ' s bags in his charge .
" nick looked at his plate .
" " be a good chap , jake .
then i have a bad headache and sick at the stomach .
" " san sebastian .
but most of them had been cheerful because they were going to see the contessa dandolo .
it was a cold night with much wind .
" what i will do if he decides to go down , i don ' t know .
but they are exhausted and i believe they will eat , as pigs , in their room .
“please don’t , ” the girl said .
he liked the look of them much better than the french girls or the german girls .
' we all had the nervous exhilaration , like a laughing drunk , that a sudden over-abundance , idiotic abundance
he can ' t handle them .
the carts were jammed for thirty miles along the karagatch road .
” rinaldi lay still in the sun breathing with dif iculty .
a balloon would start up jerkily , on a great bias , and be torn by the wind or blown
when he looked up , finally , he asked for a drink of water .
_ _num_ d soldier_--no , come on .
jack didn ' t laugh .
“the swine .
“have you decided what you are going to do yet , harold ?
by trying to speed him up , and that he has been a smugly righteous bastard again .
“there’s our old ruin , nick , ” marjorie said .
etienne du mont , went smoothly down the asphalt , passed the trees and the standing bus at the place
but they didn’t like it .
oh , i ' m so sick of the whole thing .
" he was happy feeling the gentle pulling and then he felt something hard and unbelievably heavy .
" " tell the rest , " brett said .
“i always knew you were my pal .
now he remembered coming down through the timber in the dark holding the horse’s tail when you could not see
' ' they make me feel very good , ' the girl said .
“put some water in it , ” i said .
i hate the english .
you know , when you can ' t shut your hands .
he knew he was going to be a great writer .
“how much do i owe you ?
and she had looked up into his eyes and he had kissed her .
" do you feel better ?
of the gun-bearers who was standing waiting for him .
of eating , something that i understood and m ' cola did not understand , nor care about , and
so i am stand there and watch .
” “what you call that drink , mr .
index .
they’ll take the boat .
“the old giant killer .
of her head , and at pop , big , thick , in the faded corduroy sleeveless jacket that was
” the prizefighter sat back .
the first time he started with my old man up , he finished third in a _num_ meter hurdle race
i only said that once when i was drunk .
“what does it say ?
want a ride ?
” “no , ” said enrique .
he felt he had left everything behind , the need for thinking , the need to write , other needs
" " right , " said mike .
and after they came back the teleferica house burned , it seemed , and some of the wounded got down
” billy campbell caressed the sheet with his lips and his tongue .
car skidded so that it almost swung over and macomber fell forward onto his feet , slammed his bolt forward
” “come on out , ” i said to them , “or i’ll shoot in at you .
“that’s lousy soft snow .
' ' quite rare , please .
” he removed his cloth-covered helmet , put it on again and , stooping , went out the low entrance
” “what did you do to him ?
got the books out of one of the musettes and she and pop read while i followed the ravine down
the massif of grappa with assalone and pertica and the hill i do not remember the name of on the
to baton rouge on a new road that was being built so they made many detours and then they had
' ' who do you love ?
people’s papers .
he did not think we could get the loads through .
” nick looked at the big man lying on the bed .
" and how i would love to see him get into those clothes .
“hang onto your knife , mister adams .
juma handed the broken weed to david’s father and his father rolled it in his fingers .
he winked at us .
i hope you ' re not english ?
” “why is your shirt covered with blood ?
” “i’m sure it will .
spending the time he had with the children had been a valid excuse and he knew nothing had been planned
eddy was trembling .
" " you don ' t like italian roads ?
” “as you see , ” said mr .
at the end of that time his wife came into the tent , lifted her mosquito bar and crawled cozily
i ' ll try it again .
' i am sorry for all the stupidnesses i say .
he’d helped to haul the old man in so everybody could know how bad the old man had been and
the girl brought in a big bowl of hot vegetable soup and the wine .
" i don ' t want to eat yet .
_num_ st soldier—i thought he was pretty good in there today .
“you’ve got to keep to your left .
he had seen the second fin now coming up behind the first and had identified them as shovel-nosed sharks by
” “what awful lust ?
he liked her .
' there !
you couldn’t ever tell anybody about anything .
“aren’t you going to bed , sir ?
eddy laughed but billy tabeshaw looked very serious .
' but i will put it in writing , and after me , comes the manager and the assistant manager
they passed along and up the street toward the bull-ring and behind them came more men running faster , and
“think of that .
" " i ' ll holler , " nick said .
' tell him not to take any cheques from junior officers on the bank of odessa and thank you for
' stop her by the side of the road and we ' ll take a look .
it picks up an awful volume of water in that bad swamp up above .
' ' you don ' t have to give me that stuff , ' the colonel said .
i asked him once .
he was afraid to work closer with the dog and he took him back with the wind and pushed him
" it ' s all gone .
” fontan straightened up .
" a taxi passed , some one in it waved , then banged for the driver to stop .
didn’t i remember better today ?
my jaw was sore on both sides .
“i don’t want anyone to be hurt tonight .
culture maybe was better than religion , mr .
he took a paper-covered book out of the pocket of his coat and opened it ; then laid it down
the two small glasses .
of us into nairobi .
' all right , ' karl said .
where did you hit him ?
” “no , devil .
anyway the bottle was open .
she saw why she liked romero ' s cape-work and why she did not like the others .
soaked with muddy water , wiping off glasses , and then getting the water out of the gun , wondering
poor frances has had a most unfortunate experience .
marjorie stepped out of the boat and nick pulled the boat high up the beach .
the sea broke in a long line in the rain and slipped back down the beach to come up and
i had no idea it could be this bad .
the girl came up .
“do you want to put the rest on the beer and the ice ?
the head skins were all spread and neatly salted and the skulls with the horns were leaning against the log
“the beer’s nice and cool , ” the man said .
others would die like cats ; a skull broken in and iron in the brain , they lie alive two
perhaps i should eat some of it when i clean it .
it was a rich country and more sportif every year .
“you drew the worst lot , ” the boy said .
” “no , ” he lied .
then we made the break-through as soon as the valhalla express had gone home , stretching in its beauty and
juma and david’s father were both very pleased with what they had found .
and on that hill to know you ' d made one real mistake , finally and for good and complete
i heard him say simba twice .
" he knelt down and found the tuna under the stern with the gaff and drew it toward him keeping
' _por merito di guerra_ .
what do you want , daughter ?
” “i haven’t spoken to any of them , sir .
' ' it will be cold , too .
” “no , ” al said .
“i don’t work for you any more .
body was as full and as lovely as that of renata .
and really friendly .
look !
' i brought them with me because i have been thinking and deciding about this all week .
“a votre santé , monsieur , ” said the porter .
be good now fast before you hurt her .
" oh , that dirty war .
in the day time the street was dusty , but at night the dew settled the dust and the old
' we will regroup .
macomber shot again and every one saw the bullet throw a spout of dirt beyond the trotting lion .
” says jack .
the other times i punched to the body with it .
" you don ' t mind .
' ' get that stuff up to the garage and have somebody look after it until you get the car
" zurito said nothing .
the old man’s table .
“yes .
nothing but the green wood-pigeons and some monkeys , and when we came out we were wet to our waists
“where’s eddy ?
i could see something looked like a spar up out of the water and when i got over close the
” “in the shoulders , ” wilson said .
' why do we have to get old ?
remember the nigger perfectly .
any rabbit .
' i can ' t shoot it .
' ' in the leg first , i think .
“there comes the moon .
” “i’m worried now , too , ” she said .
“should we rush him ?
the whites in budapest and requesting comrades to aid him in any way .
but please don ' t have any emptiness .
" " isn ' t she ?
“what time will you be there ?
he chewed it and noted its quality and its good taste .
he did not want to leave the half asleep half awake state he was in .
they ' d all be worse .
lights , then charging in a gallop , moving softly in a fast gallop , silent except as he woofed
i know the way .
” “i’m going to get married to you anyway .
” “the lady ?
the terrain of the bull-fighters .
chapter four we had come down to the rift valley by a sandy red road across a high plateau ,
' n ' dio , ' i said .
i looked at the old man .
and you love each other .
want to get in the game ?
and now let ' s go down to dinner .
with laughter .
they’re too heavy .
i hope so .
“i’ll get out , ” the boy said .
" yes there is , " he said aloud .
i suppose it was funny .
i sat down at the table .
" he always gets me sore , " cohn said .
they bowed before the president , and the procession broke up into its component parts .
the ones you like , ' he smiled again .
" well , " said guy , " he went twenty kilometres with us .
" " it is interesting .
if that was what you wanted to do that was quite practical .
“then we’ll hit that old logging road .
“it was an awful mess to put you through .
the cup out of the rush of the air and handed it to him when he drank .
he was still sleeping on his face and the boy was sitting by him watching him .
i handed it to him .
the dolphin looks green of course because he is really golden .
” he held it out on the palm of his hand .
” “there are such wonderful places for us to go , ” she said .
' ' all they got in the local museum is arrow heads , war bonnets , scalping knives , different
do you think we’ll get out west , nickie , on this trip ?
and you want more and more , to have , and be , and live in , to possess now
what can you do ?
hubert could not sleep and several times went out and walked up and down the corridor of the hotel in
he couldn’t sweat .
" the undefeated manuel garcia climbed the stairs to don miguel retana ' s office .
' inside the shop they looked at the two heads and she asked the price and then , there was
elliot had nearly enough poems for a book now .
it’s all right now .
the necessity to put a thousand intangibles into a sentence , now , before lunch , was too bloody .
they went to the dance and they were going to stay over sunday with friends .
" but it will do no good .
” “there are no good guitar players left ?
back from his nose .
i saw the sign hotel montana on the second floor .
the crowd was so thick i couldn’t see him again except just his legs going by and some yellow and
” “hungry .
, a narrow brush-bordered track through the heavy timber , that crossed a stream on an unsound log and pole
she was a very nice woman , pleasant and kind and successful in bed and i think she meant all
why should it always move your heart to see a sail moving along through the country , the colonel thought
he always smiled as though there were something lewd about the secret to outsiders , but that it was something
and we went downstairs and ate in the big dining-room .
weren’t we lucky they had rye bread ?
still it was a lack of preparation .
no , i said .
“you can see that the man is wounded , doctor , ” the other man said , handing the glasses
he felt it coming on now .
with a balcony that opened out above the roofs of the town .
nick sat smoking , looking out over the country .
paco stood facing him , holding the apron spread , holding a fold of it bunched in each hand ,
' i will remember that all week .
outside on the terrace working people were drinking .
that was one story he had saved to write .
' without or with any frame .
headache .
' it ' s just a question of confidence .
he’s just like he always was .
” “i wouldn’t know , ” suzy , the hired girl , said .
" you should have married him , " the cook said .
could see the roofs and chimney pots and all the hills of paris .
" you don ' t know all the needs i have for money .
they ate without talking and the man held her hand under the table .
" that was rather good .
walcott came toward him and they touched gloves and as soon as walcott dropped his hands jack jumped his left
i remember it so well that it is palpable .
the sommelier brought the beer , tall , beaded on the outside of the steins , and cold .
" he ' s not just looking .
you always ; no matter whom she loves nor where she goes she loves you more .
” “tea ?
“gentlemen , ” i said .
there ' s nothing wrong in that .
do sometimes .
' well , portrait .
this old man is clean .
" he took another full piece and chewed it .
of the back room .
" i gave her some birds .
probably part of thursday .
jim had her dress up and was trying to do something to her .
“i’ve taught you everything .
for the lorries to follow on to the eastward and headed on toward the coast and the kudu country .
" " you like the bull-fights ?
he turned then and placed the two flying fish inside the two fillets of fish and putting his knife back
“i’m all right , ” jack says .
know and two men that were doing business at the back of the bar .
“not me , ” said the thin one .
you understand these are extra treatments that he requested himself of course .
it was very cold in kansas city and he was in no hurry to go out .
' to ride herd on them , and to wield the pointers , there is a group of pistol-slappers .
' ' i know it , ' i said .
" i guess i didn ' t think about it .
" i want a leather wine-bottle , " bill said .
“you can’t shoot in this wind , ” bill said .
' ' there ' s no reason why we shouldn ' t get one on the lick where karl shot
hello !
her rising from the sea .
get coffee for us , and that we wanted a lunch .
the individual members may increase in girth to an unbelievable extent and faces fill as taut and globular as balloons
they must have come only to seize the stuff .
” the old waiter with the bald head unlocked the outside door of chicote’s and let us out into the
" yes , he was out here , " jack says .
i don’t know what to do .
” “will you read it ?
i headed over for them to see what it was and there was a cloud of birds all right .
had hit him but there was only one bullet hole , well back , just below the spine and ranging
" " you believe it is .
he had only been at it three years .
good-night , george .
“i say , you wouldn’t like to drop my beauty as a topic , would you ?
of the ridge , huddled in groups , eating , drinking and talking , or simply sitting dumbly , waiting
eating them .
” “and the date was the twelfth ?
" where were you , jake ?
i had not seen p .
“hello , jerry , ” he said .
” “could you drink ?
“which is yours ?
walking forward , watching the bull’s feet , he saw successively his eyes , his wet muzzle , and the
guns and the memsahib trying to walk like droopy , her stetson tilted on one side , happy to be
then one of her two children was killed in a plane crash and after that was over she did not
” “of course it does .
” i gave her some birds .
he was from the twelfth brigade and he was playing the gramophone .
there’s nothing you can do .
the chauffeur drove me around to my flat .
” approaching them was the middle-aged gun-bearer , limping along in his knitted cap , khaki tunic , shorts and
“glad to see you , ” jack says .
the shadow while you read so that any part of you was out of the shadow , the sun was
the shooting ' s over .
_ _num_ st soldier_--the women stuck all right .
' but when we came up to him , lying on his side , his heart was still beating strongly
sold in advance , and it did not give him a good feeling .
black ass at the cross roads we had reached the cross roads before noon and had shot a french civilian
” “i do not understand .
chapter _num_ at noon we were all at the café .
the nigger drummer waved at brett .
i guess he’s using strategy and tactics both now because we are attacking from straight in front and from both
he thought , because nobody is named d ' annunzio in a practical country and perhaps he was not jewish
people who had come late were standing behind us , pressing against us when other people crowded them .
blurred , into another farm and you could only see what was far ahead and moving towards you .
the end of the day had always belonged to nick alone and he never felt right unless he was alone
” “try it , ” said al .
joe dragged him into the bushes and got back up on the wagon-box .
it’s the noise in those buckets .
an american .
i was , truly , very fond of him and he was entirely unselfish and altogether self-sacrificing .
as i stood against the bar looking out i could see them through the window .
i tell you truly i feel o .
there’s always something in the old new yorkers that we missed .
” “i doubt that .
at a newspaper kiosque i bought a copy of the new york herald and sat in a café to read
' so then , daughter , not to bore you , the wind was from the east and the smoke
" je ne crois pas que schmidt est catholique .
new drinks ?
i never heard of brett ashley .
" " ole andreson ?
besides they do not bleed much .
you just rest and leave it as it is .
" " you keep it if you want it .
stab of white pain in the small of his back .
” krebs’s mother came into the dining-room from the kitchen .
jim slid the hand further up .
but you’re not like him at all .
they like wine all right .
” in the stern of the white boat two men in flannels and white cloth hats sat in fishing chairs
why don ' t you see when you ' re not wanted , cohn ?
when i woke up bill was packing the rucksack .
but i mean really they aren’t any good , are they ?
il faut recommencer , i said .
“if you’d gone on that way we wouldn’t be here now , ” bill said .
it was not always hot weather for the dead , much of the time it was the rain that washed
, and a man leaned far over the horse , shot the steel point of the long hickory shaft into
' thank you very much for bringing it in .
like second-growth timber at home .
your defence and my defence is no damn good .
with the bull who could not see the colors of the capes , or the scarlet flannel of the muleta
” “we will .
now is pass one formation .
' but where are we going to camp ?
“retana , ” he said , listening .
' i hope you get a lot better one .
_wine-seller_--you were in bad shape , lootenant .
“you can’t forgive me ?
' asked mine .
' ' it would be better with a map .
seemed to be of the same age and who wore their hair in a heavy club-like queue that swung against
' but now i seek perfection .
then he was on the surface , floating face down .
he put the bloody handkerchief in his pocket .
” “you’re damn right nobody did .
later on i saw a cat working on him too .
" try and argue me into getting up .
" " we oughtn ' t to talk out loud , " i said .
the log was surfaced off , and there was a sapling bent across for a rail .
they were drinking negronis , a combination of two sweet vermouths and seltzer water , and the colonel wondered how
' poor karl .
he felt her touch it and he shrank quickly inside .
" asked romero .
' it is something else .
i only criticize goodrich or firestone or general .
" we went down-stairs and out onto the boulevard st .
” “let’s not even talk about how lucky .
enough , and he had seven new fighting suits made and this is the kind of thing he was :
there was a screen across the lower part of the window that was open and the air came in cold
" " damn good !
" " the dirty swine , " bill said .
the enemy has a main line of resistance , but he cannot bring up his divisions to counter-attack because the
, the colonel said , ' do you want to say good-bye here ?
' ' i am hurt , ' said garrick holding his belly .
he sat down in the sand and puked and they held a cape over him while the crowd hollered and
i must be here myself in the person .
my father spread all the blackened , chipped stone implements on the paper and then wrapped them up .
but it was not the undertaker that had given him that last face .
he started back along the sunken road toward where he had left the bicycle .
” “no , ” said maria , taking hold of his sleeve .
she knows there ' s something wrong .
" won ' t you have a drink ?
” his father sat watching him eat and filled his glass from the milk-pitcher .
i do not notice your insults .
then it came again .
i only said i would like to fight under you in such times .
the divorce was arranged and robert cohn went out to the coast .
i walked as far as there with frankie , and i went in and he went on .
the fifth column .
he put on the map-reading light , and with his bad hand , printed a short message in block letters
rest of it went away .
muzzle and the cartilage of the ears , and afterwards flesh all of the head skins so they would not
” “ham and eggs .
“he thinks it’s all right .
“he’s going to tell us about the peasant we saw filling the grave , coming into town .
her head was back .
” they went away disappointed .
us , did not understand .
" far out to come in when the wind shifts .
" the train comes in five minutes , " she said .
but i want to see him have a good time .
once we got inside the dressing-room jack lay down and shut his eyes .
covered solidly with foliage .
we have to leave in the morning .
” “i will .
see .
“listen , billy , ” william campbell said , “i want to tell you something .
then he said to the portrait , for he did not capitalize her now in his mind , ' you
zurito stood awkwardly , watching .
they were soldiers .
“you have to reel that line in first , ” i told him .
" " why don ' t you learn ?
they went out the door .
tied up me and the cook , and they said they were going to kill you .
' ' that is like not being sure whether you are a virgin .
i like living like a gentleman .
“truly .
they ain ' t anybody can have an idea what it ' s like .
what we come ?
it was a place where it was extremely difficult for a man to stay alive even if all he did
" and waved their arms ; the two steers turned sideways to take the shock , and the bull drove
it was getting lighter now and the shooter could see the low line of the near point across the lagoon
' t overhear you don ' t get anything that ' s of anything but journalistic value .
“you can’t get anything out of these mossbacks .
really ?
i think it’s really the nicest ones that go out to torcello .
“do you and the chef always talk that way ?
sun .
" " no , ma ' am .
you oughtn ' t to do that .
" we all have titles .
“get to hell away from me .
" montoya knocked on the door and opened it .
” said the friendly soldier .
it was one of the stories in " a sportsman ' s sketches .
“my god , hello , ” she said .
in the evening we are often half shot ourselves .
of the meadow where the tyres cut in through the turf to mud and spun in the slick greasiness .
, was not the accurate term to describe that gracious entrance .
the boatman commenced smashing at the ice with the blade of his oar and then started tossing decoys out to
' ' there are some very pleasant people from the consulate .
" " isn ' t she a lovely piece ?
” “who are the two fellows with john ?
" he ' s his name stencilled on all the capes and muletas , " she said .
he had only a sorrow that had come from his own tiredness that had brought an understanding of age .
“let six come on board .
“it’s very good meat , ” macomber said .
” “thirty-eight feet , ” i said .
we went downstairs and ate in the big dining-room .
mangez du crimcheez .
they did not hear the elephant and david did not see him until the dog turned his head and seemed
“tonight , ” george answered .
it is things i know must be done .
they had gone one day and one night with their elbows on a chalk line on the table and their
i was bored enough .
you want to remember that for your next book , robert .
but don’t you think it happens ?
” i did not say anything but i was glad he was awake .
recruit porters .
“see you tomorrow night at chicote’s , ” i said .
” i went outside .
between two jack pines , the ground was quite level .
we passed lots of basques with oxen , or cattle , hauling carts along the road , and nice farmhouses
“it’s a good thing , with this rain , they didn’t try and pull this fight in the ball park
“he’ll make you good broth and i’ll have them mash some potatoes with the klim .
you ' ve put it on the line enough times .
is the doctor a german ?
" the dancers did not want me to go out .
" tell him brett wants to see him put on those green pants .
” “i’m ad francis .
grasshoppers .
eddy hung the saw up by one of its handles in the crotch of a tree .
' ' tell me , ' she said .
in and shoved it forward softly , lowering it with my finger on the trigger so that it was ready
“and hand me your pieces .
this is all very dull , i would not state it except that you ask for it .
" " you can talk spanish .
dead ducks .
" " you don ' t have to get sore .
she looked at both these men as though she had never seen them before .
i was wondering if we could get a miami daily news .
” “all right , you go .
“good night , butstein .
it was fun , though .
they are what we have instead of the locusts this year .
he started to undress and went over and closed the window because the people on the balcony of the house
and i would see woods and swamps and we would cross a stream and it was very interesting and then
taste of mouth , then uncomfortably , tightly , sweetly , moistly , lovely , tightly , achingly , fully
also , you have to think hard , stay awake late and get up early .
he took hold of me by the arm .
eddy and billy tabeshaw leaned on their cant-hooks and looked at the doctor .
man liked to sit late because he was deaf and now at night it was quiet and he felt the
” “i can’t listen to it , ” he said .
he didn ' t say much , but he kept getting up and getting knocked down again .
a slough of high dry reeds .
she opened the door with the key , which was in her bag .
the bombers droned over .
it was an oar handle from a broken oar sawed off to about two and a half feet in length
there was no brusqueness .
it’s the time when there’s no give at all and then they start to come and what they do to
_] _ _num_ d soldier_--i don ' t want any more .
blood coming out of his mouth .
' ' yes , b ' wana m ' kumba .
“i’m your mother , ” she said .
" they were simply madly in love .
“the papers said they never saw a better faena , ” manuel said .
' like that one ahead at ceggia .
“how’d you get back to the field ?
" he hurt him most badly .
it made the boy sad to see the old man come in each day with his skiff empty and he
” jim began to feel great .
' ' i always love the shoot , ' the colonel said .
could see .
page .
happiness is prewar hungary and you are count károlyi .
trailing in a dead run , it almost dark in the timber , the roman , confused a moment by
” “i am strong , ” he said .
and he was stand on his feet like on tip-toes and look at me like this .
at the cantina near the bridge they trusted him for three more grappas because he was so confident and mysterious
nor those of france .
he fitted the rope lashings of the oars onto the thole pins and , leaning forward against the thrust of
“they’re feeding , ” marjorie said .
nick pushed under the browned under surface with a fresh pine chip .
" " what a shame .
and he would have all his distant friends .
" there were several waiters and a crowd of people standing around .
you haven’t much tendency but sometimes i see a gleam .
' ' it is a little rough to state .
my arm was around her and she was leaning back against me , and we were quite calm .
“it’s his sense of self-preservation .
” “do you want—” “no please .
elliot .
” they went down the hill and across the long field and through the orchard and then through a rail
there were the noises of night seven kilometres behind the lines outside but they were different from the small noises
they were both disappointed but finally cornelia went to sleep .
” finally we could not see genoa .
" " good-night , nickie .
' they continued to sit at the table in the corner and some people went out and others came in
he was very happy , stroking the rhino ' s horn , measuring it with his fingers spread , looking
” at six-fifty-five george said : “he’s not coming .
" " you don ' t have to call it .
” “they’re not going to send me anywhere , ” nick said .
turn in ; but beer was mostly those years just after the war with chink and in the mountains .
” “just a bright boy , ” max said .
i suppose it is a natural process .
' you know , ' the colonel told him .
' ' too much the old timer about him .
” “drink it up , ” she said .
“he only writes the big fights .
he was not carrying a rifle and , from where i lay , he did not look wounded .
that ' s what i always say .
are we going down and see these bulls unloaded or not ?
feeling of misery about the dangerous game i did not know .
he can ' t stand alcohol .
roger brought in the bags and helena put the ice jug , the two cups , and the cardboard canon
" i went in and ate dinner .
' i ' m so damned glad , ' he said .
” “isn’t he awfully old to be jealous ?
people were on top of the bus , and others were climbing up a ladder .
” “see , my poor lieutenant ?
“ he brought me here , ” she said .
the concierge who entertained the trooper of the garde republicaine in her loge , his horse-hair-plumed helmet on a chair
“he was in before lunch , ” the waiter answered .
” “that’s quite true , ” he said .
the new is no good yet .
afterwards i will see what he can eat .
we were jammed in tight and first a man in a long coat with a gray tall hat and a
“you say you just pull it backward with your thumb ?
“so did i , ” nick said .
at first , yes .
“the mann act would get you , ” said odgar .
a boy came up with the paris times , and i bought one and opened it .
the deer hung stiff and heavy and empty , and small birds blew in the wind and the wind turned
" " i want you here , " he said , " and i will pay you .
' ' but didn ' t they hit you ?
expression of his face .
both sides .
" i ' ll sleep , " jack says .
we went back up to our car and george looked at the number board .
that you could feel the weight of on your neck and shoulders , started the car and went out to
" frazer asked .
" under the stars and with the night colder all the time he ate half of one of the dolphin
if i can fix it so that i get an even break , that’s all i want .
he felt bill coming up to the fire .
outside it was beginning to be cloudy again .
“i’d better go see , ” george went out .
nick held down the top strand of the wire fence with his ski and george slid over .
mexican had been to see him since he had been brought in .
must stay there .
when they reached the old man ' s shack the boy took the rolls of line in the basket and
" they were going to shoot you when you came in to supper .
” “why does juma think he knows where he’s going ?
' but he would .
it tightened , as always , but just when he reached the point where it would break , line began
people would say we are not fighting the krauts and besides the cat did not eat me nor my brother
for several minutes i had not listened to the american lady , who was talking to my wife .
maybe it would and maybe it wouldn ' t .
" i ' m going , para , " he said .
spilled liquor .
' you know , dick , ' he said .
” “what you mean those roads ?
; that it was all right .
walcott was bleeding bad and leaned his nose on jack ' s shoulder so as to give jack some of
but it does not include denouncing old friends .
you bitch , the colonel thought .
they have confiscated everything he owns .
' ' please don ' t be rough , ' the girl said .
you ask how this was discussed , worked out , and understood with the bar of language , and i
do not like the subject so they say it is all a fake , yet you know its value absolutely
were loaded onto the boats in the fall , past the white-painted bean house where they danced by lantern light
we missed you .
he looked very small and pitiful lying there on the floor .
“you’re my manager .
manuel turned to him .
" " it ' s grand .
two others that i had not seen had come over from the huts and the boy we had seen in
it will be all right .
mothers should tell their daughters about this face .
his mouth , then dropped him back into the stream .
' ' jesus , daughter , ' he said .
” “they should , ” i said .
was the thick bamboo forest of the mountain .
i was all right when we started talking .
“those guys are poisonous with dice .
“what’s the idea ?
he appreciated my valuable qualities .
that was a fertile period of hemingway’s writing and a number of stories based on his experiences in cuba and
" " it ' s ours .
all for pleasure .
they couldn’t help but see that liquor .
they all watched him walk up the hill and go inside the cottage .
david killed two spur fowl with his slingshot out of a small flock that had walked across the trail just
he was waiting for manuel .
” “that was down by viareggio , ” guy said .
' ' it must be very nice to have a daughter .
he was very cheerful .
they should have blown it .
he won’t remember nothing of it .
claude had ordered him to halt and when he had kept on running across the field red shot him .
” and how some one had said to julian , yes , they have more money .
” “but we could have remembered it for another time .
" said the doctor .
' you be good too .
" her bags fell on me .
' we better get along while there ' s light .
all should be good , but some are good , and some are not so good .
do you think there is only one way in the world to get to trieste ?
the old man withdrew the blade and punched the shark exactly in the same spot again .
” after he had it i asked him how he felt .
the referee was talking with the judges and then the announcer got into the ring with the megaphone and says
the story seemed to be over .
very honourably .
" al asked .
i lay at sou’west key a day and nobody came after me .
" " so have i , " said the girl .
“feel how cool all the way down .
" right here was where pa ran over the skunk .
" " you mustn ' t .
' oh , richard , ' she said .
' but i will try .
cars kept going by and we would pull out to the side until they were past .
” “how’s everything ?
" " i do not like for him to waken me .
i watched the sergeant hit him .
but you wish to command , too .
he went out .
she told him off .
i could not imagine any one being dead .
“were the berlitz undergraduates a wild lot ?
" " you lazy bum !
” “she’ll say anything that comes into her mind as long as it’s polite .
he never had any trouble making weight did he ?
' i ' m sending him down with dan to the sable country , ' pop said .
" two hundred francs .
hazards and i was preparing to hold out against this camp .
then there’s the rod and reel and the line from today .
” “who was that kid that was around here yesterday ?
when you were with english you got into the habit of using english expressions in your thinking .
' ' you ' re getting to be a hell of a fellow , ' pop said .
it turned half-way in either direction .
" " do you really think so ?
” “not the shadow of a guitar player .
" " that ' s the way to talk , " mrs .
” “i wanted to kill them both last night when they were asleep .
' but it is , in a way , a rather rough order .
you do kill anything , don’t you ?
the cows we were watching had heard the shot and stood , listening , then went on feeding .
up , checking that i had a pair of handkerchiefs in my shirt pockets .
, it became a contest and one after another dropped out of the running , waving and smiling as they
the young gentleman put one of the marsalas in front of her .
” to a man who’d come in .
do you mind if we talk about writing , roger ?
the cuadrilla had stepped away from the bull and waited with their capes .
there were a few deads missing from this briefing .
” “they are married .
in again into the shark ' s yellow cat-like eyes .
” i could see the curve in the line and the next time he jumped he was astern and headed
next morning i was up and away to another salt-lick before daylight .
” “i am , ” the boy said .
' don ' t worry , boy .
' you ' ll get a sixty-incher .
oh , it was swell advice .
“i don’t know , ” fontan said .
" " retana .
” “i’m fine .
cleaned them and then washed them in the stream .
she seemed to understand , to realize , to be hurt for him and for herself and to know how
you’re not interested in my troubles , ” he addressed the first porter .
they are good books but can be dull if you have been there .
nick pulled against the taut line .
“alles , ” he said .
if i could have a light i was not afraid to sleep , because i knew my soul would only
i went out to find the woman and ask her how much the room and board was .
' poor old poppa , i was sure you ' d get one .
“you ought to write for war aces .
you called me a halfwit but i’ll see you get a full day’s charter .
" " and what is there to do ?
“well , they smell about the same .
" they don ' t look happy , " brett said .
do you want to bring him ?
but i would cry now .
you must not be awake yet , to talk that simply .
but we have killed many things which were not armed .
” “in chicago ?
' ' it was the boys from torcello .
but they were too high .
the sexton was amused .
” “now , doc—” “take your stuff and get out .
” margot asked , pushing away a dish of apricots .
i said ' jambo ' , as they came up .
" badly cogido , " he said .
' you ought to get the smallest model universal puts out .
springfield slung and my small zeiss glasses in my pocket , then m ' cola with pop ' s glasses
braddocks .
david noticed the white flowers that were drooped and dying .
the last night joyce and his wife came to dinner and we had a pheasant and a quarter of the
were feeding close to camp ; quick dropping heads and switching tails , he watched them keeping well out away
he commanded with an old sock around his throat , which had been dipped in turpentine , and they broke
you walk like all the great predators , when they walk softly .
” “nicolo , ” para said .
“oh , you’ll see him around , ” blindy said .
” “i don’t know , ” she said .
he rested sitting on the un-stepped mast and sail and tried not to think but only to endure .
" " i am of those who like to stay late at the café , " the older waiter said
his heaviness was gone .
did you watch it ?
that made him happy .
, beyond which the sun was setting at the time the rhino would be coming out of the forest ;
his shoulders .
then he found the sheet and the sail filled and he brought the skiff onto her course .
they could raise a row if they chose to complain .
fuentes , tall , flat-backed , walking toward him arrogantly , his arms spread out , the two slim ,
he stopped and shook it .
shifting in values gradually .
i figured he was plenty nervous .
motor-cars were stopped along the road and bedding and things from inside the farmhouse were spread in the field .
over the side of the half-track .
with a sense of humour .
” “very .
walcott put his hand on jack’s shoulder and they stood there just for a second .
“you can’t come in , ” he said .
there was the newly severed head of a rhino that was a rhino .
he must have a way of getting over it .
“you in the charlie chaplins ?
' what an enormous cow .
“i have flit on my feet , ” she said .
hazel and ethel smiled .
" " breeding be damned .
“no , we’ll give him a while .
when you put them side by side they looked all right .
maybe her rudder was carried away .
" sure , " he said .
they were strangely shaped .
one day is as good as another .
practical , too , i suppose .
” “you were a little slow .
' ' the trees are like andré ' s pictures , ' p .
it came , heavily .
i understand .
it has a sort of a carved look .
" asked the innkeeper .
also , i ' ll have my maid wash my head and give me a manicure and a pedicure .
” “the great italian sense .
" " we ' ll see .
sometimes the bull only bumped him with his head .
' ' i ' m jackson , sir .
“up in his room , lying down .
“i don’t follow .
we found nothing , no trace , no tracks , no blood , and i told m ' cola we
' i checked out on elevators long ago .
it went scrambling and bounding off through the rocks .
“no , ” said al .
but you can explain them when you care to .
he used to be a taxi driver .
manuel , standing at the barrera , noticed that he looked always to the right .
“i will ride on the outside .
” “keep your hands off me , ” jack says .
, received their congratulations , and then gone into the tent and sat on the bed until his wife came
' ' really ?
' ' any amount , ' the colonel told him .
he ' s putting up for zizi , you know .
for good and for bad , he thought and for good and for all .
' he paused while the _gran maestro_ poured the roederer brut ' _num_ .
" quite .
" " you ' re happy , all right .
you did not kill the fish only to keep alive and to sell for food , he thought .
" yes , what ?
“i’d like to stay with him for a little while , ” claude said .
“you wish something ?
you played it right .
but i’d like to bet you’re going to have plenty .
delighted him .
" " everybody ' s sick .
“he said it , ” alice said and smiled .
“why don’t you just go to another table and let comrade henry and me talk .
" " how much are you getting ?
hurt him or mark him up no more than he is .
that ' s a hell of a note .
" there , " his father would say , " it ' s your sister dorothy .
' everybody ought to do it before breakfast .
probably have not brought it out .
' ' just outside of camp .
” “he’s a sister himself , ” the man in the slagged trousers said .
" bill went off with cohn .
“you’re wasting our time .
we kept some for a while and then we gave them all away .
me , papa , if it bothers you .
this done , full of historical admiration for kibaya , we learned the road was possible ahead , left word
men would come in from distant towns and before they left pamplona stop and talk for a few minutes with
the room was unstable unless i looked at some fixed point .
there ought to be something you could do for the princeton , yale and harvard virgins , though .
yesterday , before the sun set , when we thought today was to be as any other day , they
" he felt faint again now but he held on the great fish all the strain that he could .
we had acquired , at some time , a friend of bill ' s from biarritz .
out of water .
you don’t have to talk to them .
" i ' ll get out , " the boy said .
unable to close , even , the gap at falaise and found the going rather sticky and could not quite
bottle , and finally two local citizens with spears , water bags , and a chop box with lunch .
thank you , enrique .
this country meant very much to him , more than he could , or would ever tell anyone and now
' portrait , ' he said , ' why the hell can ' t you just get into bed with
my god , leave some for tomorrow .
have , and now it served as a warning and nothing more .
i could see something looked like a spar up out of water and when i got over close the birds
they soldiered good for five but now all they want to do is live through the last month and go
they must have come fast all right .
no , he thought , when everything you do , you do too long , and do too late ,
the only possible way was to quarter every foot of the high grass and trace every foot of the gullies
i ' m going to get that sullen character in now and pick up and get the hell to the
he remembered how , by some miracle of chance in a war , he had been with his best friend
" retana , " he said and banged the door .
up on his back .
and the horn came out , and he lay in the sand , and then got up like crazy drunk
" " i assure you , sir , " the count put his hand on my arm .
am heartily sorry for having offended thee who art worthy of all my love and i firmly resolve … ,
' yes , master , ' said the old man .
" " well , " says jack , " i got the dough for them all right .
the little bubbles were coming faster now .
and i would see m ' cola watching him and pretending not to see .
“can i drink a coca-cola , papa ?
_num_ —dc _num_ _num_ - _num_ cip isbn- _num_ : _num_ - _num_ - _num_ - _num_ - _num_ isbn-
” and he went out .
just then the concierge came to the table and said , ' excuse me , my colonel .
' he ' s not the same bull .
” “i thought you said you weren’t on the coast , ” some one said .
' ' the other leaders ?
a symbol of authority .
i didn’t know how well you could take care of yourself and , anyway , i didn’t want you to
he must pull until he dies .
” “sure .
the wine and aguardiente sellers were putting up their booths .
” “oui , j’aime la bière , mais fontan , il est crazy pour le vin .
“no , not today .
” it sounded silly when he said it .
i took a quick one out of the first bottle i saw open and i couldn’t tell you yet what
, and threw a cloud of dirt over him .
we must work through before we made our stalk .
“she’s gone away somewhere .
“au revoir , ” he called to them in his exemplary french .
i could tell you in detail but let ' s skip it .
“all is forgiven since you know i am the boss .
' ' don ' t you think i should go to the shoot ?
” we drove for two hours after it was dark and slept in mentone that night .
' ' now you say thank you , ' the girl said and slipped them into his pocket as quickly
all the girls , the old woman , and the clean-cut young man sat down at table together .
" bill ' s face was red .
” “with me now , ” jack said , “it don’t make any difference where i am .
eats himself .
" you can take it or leave it , " retana said .
no hard feelings , you know .
but i don’t want you to do it if you don’t really want to .
she put it on the table and brought a bottle of red wine and sat down at the table .
of a fine woman .
“it ain’t a bad book , wemedge .
" want to go ?
“heads , ” i said .
' we both watched , using the glasses guardedly .
and i am sure many times too that i slept without knowing it—but i never slept knowing it , and
carl , ” said mrs .
i put my hand out , palm toward him , and waved him down but he paid no attention and
do you mind the onion ?
sisters and how she loved her brother and how he loved his sister , and then they got married in
at all .
" i suppose you like to add them up .
” “so long , frankie , ” i said .
' should we have them take it and the chairs down and make a special showing of it for your
our deepest convictions--will science upset them ?
i agreed with him .
deal .
” “tell him he is a beautiful boy , ” the lady said .
" how do you feel , hand ?
" he ' s out at chantilly dining with some people .
avenue .
shoot , oh shoot !
" i don ' t want to work , " manuel said .
i have killed enough and i have shot as well or better than i can shoot .
my god , that ' s the first time i ever saw that in my life .
a clearing a hundred yards ahead , looking to me hard-hit and looking back , wide ears spread , big
i ' ll be back .
for just a moment i thought i was one .
" don ' t he ever sweat at all any more ?
the gale scouring the exposed surface of the mountain had swept the snow surface into a wind-board crust .
then i saw him going almost straight away up the valley in the tall grass and i hit him again
the raincoats .
" trudy folded her brown legs together happily and rubbed against him .
” “that’s wonderful , ” she said .
there was that noise three times and then i saw something come out from under the door .
” “there should be a rubber cup , ” said paco .
" " where will we eat ?
i called him over and said , “and just in case you should have spoken to any turkish officers .
the barrel whisky had all been gone for many months now and we finished the last of the yellow gin
“they broke me , ” he said .
there was no one dancing in the square .
she brought the bill from the old woman and went back and sat at the table .
cohn had a wonderful quality of bringing out the worst in anybody .
but , for a time , it had been his great joy .
and it ' s been a long time .
on february _num_ he wrote from his home in key west to his editor maxwell perkins at scribners suggesting such
in the procession were all the dignitaries , civil and religious .
' _oh_ , good luck , ' she said .
we all felt very badly .
romero wiped his lips .
we started down and in a ravine jumped a waterbuck bull and two cows .
even the surface had been burned off the ground .
just like when the three-day blows come now and rip all the leaves off the trees .
at school in france the boys told me you can’t live with forty-four degrees .
" you are an austrian , " they say .
at the news-stand frenchmen , returning to paris , bought that day ' s french papers .
" " they ' re bad when they ' re drunk .
why aren ' t you drunk ?
" you ' re the only friend i got .
the men had moved off up the road to sit in the dark and smoke out of range of the
there were many hyena tracks and , as the trail came on to a ridge of grey rock so that
but now it had come and what was he doing ?
we could see the lights of the house up on the hill .
after two or more drinks in the evening ; that he knew was there (it was not really there of
_ ' ' wait a little , ' i told him .
' ' we ' ll get him off the road .
i wish i were one of these literary chaps .
back over his tongue and swallowed it .
" another brandy , " he said .
' ' let ' s get higher , where we can see them if they break , and throw something
do you still want to be like her ?
“she said a lot of things to me that day .
just a little irony .
the water glass .
' ' we ' ll see them by the thousands .
but too many books are bad , " madame fontan said .
the invitation , and i thought that ' s a good piece of business , and i said to him
' and please wait until after we have gone under the second bridge .
it comes in april and from bassano .
' ' maybe .
' the barone ' s lunches for the shooting blinds were of a spartan quality , which the colonel respected
” “that’s not hard .
out at _num_ miles an hour with plenty of gas—” manuel , leaning against the barrera , watching the bull
breakers and the open sea .
it was a puff , as of a wind that makes a candle flicker and the flame go tall .
through a divide in the hills like a dry irrigation ditch and climbed , sweating , the small , steep
it all seemed like some bad play .
_num_ d soldier—everybody’s a nice fella to you tonight .
” claude asked .
“then , while the one held paco by the arm ; paco , looking very ashamed to be spoken of
i’m cold i tell you .
' ' i ' m not sure you ' ll need it , ' the colonel said .
but now it was all over it was swell to know we had the winner .
" " no ; that doesn ' t interest me .
“you splayfooted bastard .
the bullet hole was fairly high in the back , a little behind the lungs .
i put out the glasses .
at first the boxes just showed above the high grass , then a line of heads , then they were
' ' both good men , ' the colonel agreed .
bill put the pack against one of the trees and we jointed up the rods , put on the reels
“feel how cool , ” she said on the bed .
' she turned her head and raised her chin , without vanity , nor coquetry and the colonel felt his
” the waiter asked .
give us that spiel on modern writers again .
they were headed straight for the skiff swimming side by side .
it was a quiet life and no one was drunk .
i ' m having a hard time handling it .
she had on a leather coat too and it was becoming to the sort of face she had .
he was to be shot when he sobered up .
” “i nearly said it again .
" " he thinks _so_ .
after was a little larger .
she ran well , almost too well for a girl , and when roger forced the pace just a little
“how do you do ?
' they talked together .
” “the hell he is .
' what is there to eat in this _wirtschaft_ ?
” “this is fresh .
the music hit you as you went in .
when the native boys put him down at the door of his tent , he had shaken all their hands
" " oh , no , sir .
the houses were in a big grove of elm trees and the road was very sandy .
you wouldn ' t think a good german cat would eat a good german soldier , would you , daughter
rhino trail that graded through the grassy hills with their abandoned orchard-looking trees , as smoothly and evenly as though
way off we saw the steep bluffs , dark with trees and jutting with gray stone , that marked the
" look , " he said , " do you see any bulls in my hand ?
" " seven francs .
i have to sort of keep him away from people .
the referee called them out to the center of the ring and jack walks out .
“how did that man lose his sight ?
i repeat , gentlemen , that you will get nowhere at it .
" don ' t let ' s ever talk about it .
he asked himself .
there were no lights in any of the houses they passed .
" edna asked .
his mother would have given him breakfast in bed if he had wanted it .
“how’s the old wing ?
do not know and if you passed a lake it was the same way .
we were eating shrimps and drinking beer .
if she must be like any dog , and she did not wish to be , she would prefer a
we waved and started , passing more of the roman ' s household , the older and uglier part ,
as we waited , the fascist came up on his bicycle .
" he never liked soldier much .
' ' but do you think it was the same in the time of the grand captains ?
then he took us up and into a rocky , ravine-cut country where the trailing was slow and the climbing
' ' i beg to differ with the colonel , ' jackson said .
” “not any more .
the sun melted the snow from the skis we were carrying and dried the wood .
he skipped the rope a little while .
” “you don’t mind you’re with me instead of going to trudy ?
that afternoon was the big religious procession .
m ' cola went jumping down the hill , and across the stream , directly opposite us , a rhino
" " let ' s not talk .
” liz took her coat off the peg on the kitchen wall and they went out the door .
you ' ll love me ?
brett looked straight ahead .
sway like a felled tree and came smashing down toward them .
" " lord , no .
running lights on once , just the green and red , and turned them off .
i like him as well as i like anyone .
john was quite a dresser too .
but if he lived he would never write about her , he knew that now .
” “we’ll have to go , ” nick said .
i got the dictionary out of my pocket and made a sentence in pigeon swahili .
he had been a good client as the waiter had said and we had been friends .
they were all around him trying to lift him and put him on their shoulders .
he was a fool to go to chicote’s .
i had another bottle of the german beer and , watching the country , saw , suddenly , that all
milan , with subsequent outpatient treatment .
he gave his camera to bill .
sleeping so lovely .
' the colonel did so .
the tall one with the small mustache who was an architect and speaks english ?
” the waiter came over .
another porter came in and said the simplon-orient express was an hour late at saint-maurice .
that much mannitol hexanitrate produced a certain amount of nausea , sometimes , and he was anxious for the interview
or i will be .
" " the hell you don ' t !
they were all chanting .
“that’s a lot of money .
that ' s why they ' re very big .
and i can hang and rattle .
in another country in the fall the war was always there , but we did not go to it any
" i laughed and said it to tommy .
“now you’re shooting !
from his house he runs a bull .
” morgan said .
it might be much better .
” nick walked away from the fire across the clearing to the railway tracks .
” “i’ve never seen you drunk .
and pleasant atmosphere .
" the bootblack knelt down beside the one at work and started on mike ' s free shoe that shone
only i believed it took time when i found it did not happen suddenly .
old mount-to-the-head hadn’t thought of that .
' ' now , daughter , let us resume the having of the fun .
i figured the way the current looked she would drift the twelve miles up to bacuranao by dark and i’d
” somebody hit on a machine but it wasn’t any heavy hit .
” “what about the treatment ?
i looked at him standing there tall and hollowcheeked with his mouth loose and that white stuff in the corners
the doctor told me that the major ' s wife , who was very young and whom he had not
“i’ll get it straightened out though and then it will .
when they ' re feeling .
i am just laughing about the leche .
” “he doesn’t know anything about the waiter ?
the bolt i tossed inside the opening of our tent on to my cot .
” harris called the waitress .
" i tell you it ' s strange , jake .
down-stairs we came out through the first-floor dining-room to the street .
' ' but many people without money shoot in the veneto .
' the _gran maestro_ is really very responsible .
the head game-keeper was standing on the bank in his high boots , his short jacket and his pushed back
they were all around the house .
i ' ve tried all that .
caused a panic ; which is one of the strangest things there is , the colonel thought .
” “it is fine for hunting and fishing , ” i said .
” nick turned his head carefully away smiling sweatily .
' they were all hitting the same place .
" it goes too fast for me .
" " i stand it now .
marseilles i suppose .
garrick to come back from their huts .
on the floor and the bed cover was dusty too and i smelt the dust and lay there with my
” “i’m so glad .
“ ‘how did her face get that way ?
' ' where now ?
fifty pounds .
mail and a half-bottle of evian water .
you see they were his guns still and he never bought any others .
chains while the roman elder and the rest unloaded the car and carried the heaviest things up the steep bank
one hand and held the other tight against the place , and the bull rammed him wham against the wall
he ' s quite one of us .
the stretcher-bearers asked the doctor to go in and have a look at him .
" really ?
and then frightfully thirsty .
we were standing across the street and i was buying the papers .
you’re going to take a beating , see ?
i hope i am not boring you .
but he did not know why , because he could not think .
they will bring them in in the dark .
” “another , ” said the old man .
the country they wanted and then came to a hotel without a bar and spent their time sitting on the
game .
you watch from now on .
blood sudden hot and frothy in his mouth , and he galloped toward the high grass where he could crouch
" it would be impossible for steve to have said that , " peroxide declared .
" " hello , frances , " said cohn .
he trails around after nick all the time .
' ' that ' s the proper attitude , ' he said .
wrapped around his neck .
' chapter xix the colonel breakfasted with the leisure of a fighter who has been clipped badly , hears four
there were two other whores that were nearly as big but the big one must have weighed three hundred and
“hello , bugs !
i remember how slowly they all went and they were always going down or coming up .
” “what did you lay off them for ?
fight in the ball park , " john said .
i was more ashamed of it all the time .
" the count was tucking in his shirt .
i swam out , trying to swim through the rollers , but having to dive sometimes .
” “that’s right , ” said john .
he ' s got nothing to worry about .
that face him and they all have one foot in the air because they fear him .
they said he was awful .
shape ; he handled his cards well at bridge , and he had a funny sort of undergraduate quality about
' but did you see m ' cola , ' pop asked .
” “tell me about how you got married .
each time he fought he fought to kill and the other bulls were not afraid of him because they came
' ' his idea of being appreciated is for us to carry him on our shoulders , ' pop said
she did not see him and stood a moment , holding the two blankets in her arms .
“all of a sudden everything was over , ” nick said .
“wouldn’t you like me to read ?
and everything rained down as from a fountain .
and then , by removing the socks entirely , the boots made possible .
it was a great mistake , she said .
, and then they take the moonshine out of their pockets in a bottle and pour it in the beer
the marble-topped tables in the shade of the arcade .
" he pointed the drumstick at me and went on .
" " let ' s see them .
" " you ought to get married .
only lots of talk in chink .
the wind blew day and night for five days and when it stopped half the palm fronds hung dead against
" cohn still sat at the table .
when the money runs out we can return .
the mail had come and i got the papers and went over on the other side of the porch and
brett smiled at us .
“is it fun ?
i went back and the water was clearer all the time and you could see everything that floated out over
' ' but are you bitter about everything ?
i cut out the engine and went back to the stern .
“a good fifty inches , or better .
was still true in the morning .
then another tank went forward on the left and into the trees and you could see the flash of its
i remember walking up the stairs and opening the door to the flat , unlocking it and pulling back on
i was drinking red wine , and so far behind them that i felt a little uncomfortable about all this
' ' how are your boots ?
manuel drew the sword out of the muleta , sighted with the same movement , and flung himself onto the
“too much fun fourth of july , ” the indian woman laughed .
through the snow , mr .
the third notice came in another week and i read it to him .
" what will we say ?
" " i started to tell him , " mike began .
he pointed to the sky and the rained-out road .
he stopped stif and one of the monos held his bridle and walked him forward .
i must not keep you .
' breakfast in the dark with a lantern , cool juice-slippery apricots , hash , hot-centred , brown , and
" guy asked me .
he is prime minister and war minister and nobody can even talk to him any more .
' ' not ivory , i hope .
they have interrogated comrades from the shop where he worked .
his lies were quite unimportant lies and consisted in attributing to himself things other men had seen , done or
he opened the screen door and went out across the grass to the cottage .
but they’re still useful .
but i will pay you .
' i cannot buy new books now but we can always talk .
especially all night .
" but now i am reformed out of the war .
i thought you would be glad to know .
' hello , girl .
robert cohn was crossing the street .
“she tells me you never made a sound , ” mr .
who has done this to thee ?
' ' i don ' t think that would be so terrible in a city as old as this and
” marjorie asked .
it is like professional football , _calcio_ .
makes me feel little bit drunk maybe .
very .
" watch him now .
“and you are quite sure that you love a girl ?
but it was dry now and dully shiny and i knew we had lost much time on him when he
' that ' s mighty interesting , ' i told him .
they went out .
thumbs up , first finger down , spread to catch the eye of the bull .
” “splayzey , you’re not going to do any shooting at that boy .
until that had failed i had believed i might have a close and good shot and i knew that if
here , waiter !
i told the barman i did not want anything to drink and went out through the side door .
i am not really a good bull fighter .
" what did you say to him ?
at him .
and then he talks that way .
forget it .
the dead grow larger each day until sometimes they become quite too big for their uniforms , filling these until
you give them money .
what did you think could happen that would not have consequences ?
boys were watching .
” “don’t you swear in my kitchen , ” the hired girl said .
said when he had gone into his tent to bathe .
’ “the priest looked at her again .
" " there ' s a fight to-night , " bill said .
she doesn’t care about things .
i never knew about driving across the country and having our drinks on the way .
” “you’re both talking rot , ” said margot .
” “don’t you dare take her , ” mrs .
it ' s quite nice .
because you’ll be in trouble .
" it ' s very funny .
i could not make the elevator work , so i walked up .
the colonel looked at him contemplatively and with the old deadliness .
as soon as it gets to strength again they ' ll give you back your company .
for a charge , for heroics , and for drama , that i felt more let down than pleased .
” “don’t they ever ?
the light from the hotel shone on the blackness of the gondola and made the water green .
when we were close m ' cola threw a stone at him .
the nigger raised himself up and looked .
' he motioned for the _gran maestro_ to fill the glasses .
other unpleasantnesses , ” wilson said , taking a drink from the flask .
if i did i’d get out .
the colonel got into the boat and the boatman checked the blind and unhooked the pocketed , apron-like device which
' ' let ' s be like you said and please tell me that you love me .
” i better go upstream and find a shallow and try to get a couple of small ones , he
the woman came out through the curtains with two glasses of beer and put them down on the damp felt
“you’re beautiful .
in all the world , that is .
there was no breeze came through the open window .
“we ought to have gone last night .
' ' it is an easy language .
" " last long ?
he was just tight , that ' s all .
the black gondola , was blowing back in the wind , so she looked like the figure-head on a ship
they ' ve sent it to me in a vision in the café select .
naturally , we have our own conversations among ourselves .
and of the darkness that stopped the tsetse from biting .
” “i saw him in the moving pictures of the fight , ” tom said .
peduzzi came down the steps .
” then we’d start off jogging around the infield once , maybe , with him ahead , running nice ,
you get a big enough cut .
to the right , and we saw a whole new range of mountains off to the south , all brown
” “is it really bad ?
i went down a side street to the boulevard raspail .
why not me ?
afterward i had coffee .
what a damn wonderful girl and what am i doing here anyway ?
" " you think he ' ll be the president ?
aren’t you hungry ?
i’m hopped to the eyes .
” “yes , ” said the little man .
the dancing-club was a bal musette in the rue de la montagne sainte geneviève .
it is the simplest country to live in .
“she can take a dozen if they didn’t have any baggage .
strange way , he walked over the edge of the ridge and out of sight .
” “i will describe it , ” said baldy .
” “there isn’t now .
" the light is very bright and pleasant but the bar is unpolished , " the waiter said .
and then turn out the gate and along one of those roads with all the trees along both sides of
' i am rich , ' the colonel said .
and drew his knife from its sheath with his right hand .
' ' i will have to call my home and find out if i can come out .
" you line up your cuadrilla , so i can see what i ' ve got .
outside , above the singing , we could hear the music of the procession going by .
' ' does he speak of us ?
oh , my god , what a man he was .
elliot cat in the rain out of season cross-country snow my old man big two-hearted river : part i big
” “i wish you could stick over and we could do the dent du lys tomorrow .
sometimes it’s from drowning and sometimes from in from of a train and sometimes in a plane and sometimes in
" " oh , yes .
" i would like to be convinced .
" " oh , i ' m over in the quarter .
you ' ve less chance of being killed .
i repeat .
bill and i took the morning train from the gare d ' orsay .
’ that don’t do them any good .
' n ' dio , ' said m ' cola solemnly .
” “all right , ” retana agreed .
i have a newspaper clipping which i have lost which says so .
and in the heat , my feet out over the side of the car to keep them away from the
” “but we can be jolly can’t we ?
it was only really difficult in normandy , due to the terrain , and when we made the break for
, los angeles , and seattle .
“skill in the use of , ” he said .
when he had thought of anything except his work .
' she did not charge , but dropped her head , finally , and worked up the hill followed by
it was awful while he was gone .
, stumbling as his feet hit the still speeding-by of the earth , and then he was shooting at the
“who did you treat square , you rummy ?
' we ' ll be two , ' the colonel said .
" get him out of there , " manuel shouted to the gypsy .
after she had the lovers she did not drink so much because she did not have to be drunk to
the two waiters were standing over against the door .
" i translated to brett .
the little man whom nick knew by name as a former champion fighter was silent .
, smugly , ' what ' s the matter with them ?
tight together , his body curving to one side to let the bull pass .
m ' cola brought the whisky flask and handed it to me very solemnly .
on purpose .
the sun was hot now and the old man felt it on the back of his neck and felt the
" " no , american .
i don’t think she meant to .
" " no , it is not , " agreed the waiter with a wife .
i ' ll get out .
when the nurse goes out i cry an hour , two hours .
in the distance , a herd of zebra galloping in the grey heat haze , raising a dust , and
why weren’t there any virgins in state universities ?
” “save it for the meeting , ” said the other waiter .
only to lose it to sharks) .
you saw them as your eyes adjusted themselves to the half-light .
cow , and below , in the tall grass , casting in circles , commenced to hunt for the trail
" " marcial has been in san sebastian all day .
inside it smelled of fresh tanned leather and hot tar .
i try and play it along and just not make trouble for people .
gun-bearer ran like hell and the bull went off slowly into that bush .
" " it ' s sort of what we have instead of god .
he did not smile .
' ' tell me some true things about fighting .
they’re getting much better .
" writers and artists .
i ' d like to see mr .
' all cows , ' garrick said .
no one ever better .
he’s been working all day .
“ i ’ d b e tt e r g e t t o tha t d a mne d
" edna said .
" see on the back where they come out .
i have never cared what anyone thought , ever .
" like at the table , " he said .
” “c’est jolie , la neige .
the sleeve of and he clubbed him twice behind the ear and then smashed him with his right as he
” “if we would have hired a good mechanic instead of a half-baked kikuyu driver , he would have checked
the military band was playing and the crowd was massed on the far side of the square where the fireworks
” he was feeling exalted and talkative as football players are in the dressing room after a game .
" that afternoon about five o ' clock three mexicans came into the room .
you can shoot them afterwards .
” “let’s eat before i have to go , ” nick said .
sister cecilia came into the room about ten o’clock in the morning on that day and brought the mail .
home is going to be wherever men are oppressed .
for an hour the old man had been seeing black spots before his eyes and the sweat salted his eyes
” “you can’t ever tell .
he was awake and looking out of the window .
crossed the top of a col , the road winding back and forth on itself , and then it was
yes , ” he said .
“he sounds almost here , ” macomber’s wife said .
" i ' ve got a cab .
but go .
" they are good , " he said .
but there ' s a lot of difference between a jeep , and a car as low hung as this
” “alive and with the leg paralyzed .
” “nothing as far as i’m concerned .
“i can see that without glasses , ” the man addressed as doctor said .
the other lions were all bad lions and every day they ate zebras and wildebeests and every kind of antelope
of course , the hotel-keeper had sent her .
he’s wearing a sweater and an old pair of pants and boxing shoes .
the boy refusing and the old man saying he would beat him again .
“that is all right , ” mr .
“he’ll lose it , ” he almost shouted .
“i’m going .
gills and out his mouth and make his head fast alongside the bow .
it was a big , closed car , with a driver in a white duster with blue collar and cuffs
the real horn , white-tipped , black , smooth , and as enrique passed him and turned to rush again
i went on to dilate on the difficulties the country showed and we went home to camp in the dark
and all the projecting part of the hook , the curve and the point , was covered with fresh sardines
never look at any part of the bird but the bill .
he just did the right thing .
” nick could not see the flag or the flag pole .
he ' ll pick him .
, kicked in the spurs and held them and with the reins in his left hand walked the horse forward
" " just like i am , " he said .
now go to sleep , mike .
“i wouldn’t ever say that .
" " it ' s an awful thing , " nick said .
" " no , " i said .
but he would never do it , because each day of not writing , of comfort , of being that
other in the eye and at their hands and forearms and the bettors went in and out of the room
” i ran her over to the standard oil dock across the harbor and filled up both the tanks .
the man on the inside was looking out the window and his right wrist was handcuffed to the left wrist
“is he in the tanks ?
" " and send it up to the next car .
he was very sorry for him and he felt a cure might help .
, u .
' ' i don ' t care about football .
described , when i asked him what the country was like to the south , as a million miles of
that touched the water in the dusk .
just try and be calm .
' i feel terribly about the regiment , ' the girl said .
the glass was too stout .
' ' thought by god we ' d eaten , ' pop said .
katy-ay !
brown clouds of the norther .
i ' ll see what i can do .
hand .
mineral water and small flasks of cognac and sandwiches with ham between sliced long pointed-end bread wrapped in paper and
" " hold him tight .
his two hands touching , the banderillas two descending red lines , and leaning forward drove the points into the
he put it down by the bed and walked to the edge of the porch and looked .
we got into paris early in the morning in a long , dirty station the old man told me was
olé !
” fontan said to her .
one blanket was spread over the browse bed and he put the other one on it and tucked it under
“what would happen if they heard about it in nairobi ?
“george thought i better come and tell you about it .
more than once .
i don ' t think i can get anything but a dolphin here .
what they call the muskrats .
“they’re a couple of sharpshooters .
” “if billy goes away .
“help me to bear this , ” she said into the weeds , speaking to no one , for there
: fishing and shooting .
there were not very many passengers .
“speak german , not dialect .
" a collection of globos illuminados .
" " what about ?
' i said , pointing at garrick who was getting into the car .
walcott was bleeding bad and leaned his nose on jack’s shoulder so as to give jack some of it too
he could tell the difference between the blowing noise the male made and the sighing blow of the female .
“keep out of my business , ” he said .
spring by then and you could tell me all about everything .
i try little one .
“cut it out , ” the guard said .
' ' would you kiss me and hold me tight , and we both look at the grand canal where
“my father lives in a city where he stands under the clock tower and looks down on a thousand pigeons
perhaps i shall attend a meeting of the society some time .
the grass was longer and it was easier again .
" gentlemen , " he said , and unwrapped a drumstick from a piece of newspaper .
why i said to him , ‘stephen i didn’t know you had it in you .
“there will be years of work before we will need this again .
but , daughter , sometimes you don ' t just hold .
” “prosit , ” she said and went out , taking the empty bottles .
chicote had it and it was not faked or put on .
" he ' s nothing .
“you could have read it .
' ' they are very big and young .
fighting was his obligation and his duty and his joy .
an inexact command in which details are not specified , or to have to do it in front of people
but this was good .
maybe he can tell me what’s right to do , she said to herself .
on our left was the mediterranean .
' ' not very often .
” “you are sure of this ?
' ' he wasn ' t in .
" " at the hotel .
yes , we , said maera .
i don ' t like to drive this coast at night .
into the barrel .
i know they are supposed to be amusing , and you should be tolerant , but i wanted to swing
_num_ st soldier—say , george , can’t you give this gentleman something to fix up his stomach ?
' after dinner we sat by the fire a little while and then went to bed .
" " did you ever think about going to british east africa to shoot ?
" i figured rapidly back in my mind .
i handed him to m ' cola .
“i’ll get my leather jacket , ” margot said .
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--no , it ain ' t just that .
” * the reader’s indulgence is requested for this mention of an extinct phenomenon .
” “he says some fellow that he doesn’t know .
he was asleep in a short time and he dreamed of africa when he was a boy and the long
" " good , " said william campbell .
" " isn ' t he a fool ?
the boys are all settling down ; they’re all determined to get somewhere ; you can see that boys like
“but you’re alive and you’re going to do things .
he looked down for the muleta .
then alice , who was still shaking , spoke .
across the smooth sand , in the high doorway that led into the corrals , the bull-fighters were standing ,
that was one of the things about being drunk when you were young .
take the case of joan of arc .
; solid , sound , respectful and trustworthy ; they walked into the piazzetta and then across the great ,
but i was getting plenty worried because he owed me eight hundred and twenty-five dollars .
let us kneel and say : ' don ' t eat that , lady--that ' s mencken .
do you care ?
he ' s got another one still to go .
“i’m not going back , nickie , unless you tell me to , ” she said .
” “well , ” he said .
why did she do that ?
" you ' re not a member , then ?
little the worse for drink , only a little the worse for bed , but town & country never showed
' you killed him .
but if he did i ' d go on down beyond those hills and there would be another country where
' ' put your right hand , your real hand , in your pocket once and tell me how you
grey , big bellied , long necked , small headed , and with big ears , they moved quickly into
' ' but was there nothing wonderful nor great , the way it is in books ?
' i ' m one of those quiet people .
” “while you are sending for them , make me a very dry martini .
" he was an ass , though .
he ate the whole plateful before he remembered the bread .
it was fine lying between the sheets with the thick blanket pulled up and it all dark and the country
but i could not take a motor car .
“then , ” the extremaduran went on somberly , “one of them said to the officer in spanish , ‘where
how does everything go at trieste ?
“i wish we were swiss , ” george said .
" how ?
” asked the extremaduran angrily .
“well , he’s a doctor .
“well , you will , ” said the man called doctor .
heavy solid rubberiness .
” “if we stay .
' ' pine mostly and cotton-wood along the creeks and aspen .
he loved green turtles and hawks-bills with their elegance and speed and their great value and he had a friendly
raise .
“i mean the kid you’re looking for .
and then neatly wrapped on themselves and at his strange un-negroid , thin-lipped face .
no one noticed us come in .
“still fishing .
" good morning , " he said .
not know how wilson felt about things either .
get back and get off some cables , " and it was done .
they had come in so recently from the plains and the hills that it was necessary that they make their
i do not like to ask questions , and where i was brought up it was not polite .
i think it would be better if you didn’t come up to the line until you had those supplies .
" " you wouldn ' t believe it .
" retana ' s man asked .
“won’t you have another coffee or a liqueur ?
he heard two blasts on a whistle from close to the house and he wriggled steadily on .
” “he’s nervous and crabby , ” i said .
, and was married by the first girl who was nice to him .
” “he goes to see her every day .
" " if i did i wouldn ' t tell you .
they were all going fishing again next summer .
" " mais il y a très bonne chasse aussi en france , " i said .
“we can’t get in , ” i said .
“there will be a certain amount of unpleasantness but i will have some photographs taken that will be very useful
the hurt was lessened by cutting off the toes of the heavy short wool socks worn over ordinary socks ,
” asked macomber .
bill had packed the rucksack and we put one of the trout-bags in .
" what an excellent fish dolphin is to eat cooked , " he said .
an opening see the flash of water .
cape just ahead of the horns .
' droopy came up to the fire with two spear-carrying natives .
the santé who replied with that phrase when asked if he had any last words to say .
” “the title is very elegant , ” the manager said .
' ' please don ' t ask such silly things .
" brett turned to bill .
shoot him .
it was like that crossing the square .
" " there is an accordion player who is worth something , " the thin man said .
there wasn’t much in it , and when i’d finished it , i opened up the only one i had
the nights were cold and the days were hot , and there was always a breeze even in the heat
so good of you to remind me .
” “i love you very much and we don’t have to do this any more do we ?
the theatrical one of the two trackers stood up .
he looked at the date and then waved us on .
” “at what hour in the morning ?
" " i didn ' t ask you that .
on the final roll mike had three kings and let them stay .
he looked very grave and did not like it at all .
' now ask them to ring harry ' s and see if the contessa is there .
she turned quickly and went into the hotel .
go on back , tiny .
the current will have set us far to the eastward , he thought .
life is very short and ugly women are very long and sitting there at the table i decided that even
it is silly not to hope , he thought .
" it ' s true , " he said .
' ' i ' m tasting it , ' the colonel said .
" " we better eat .
see how lively he can make them ?
” “it’s all right for you to say that , but i do know it .
but he was always very brave and very foolish .
" this is true , true , true , and you know it .
" " couldn ' t we have kept the man in scotland ?
he can’t see them yet , but they are going to come and that will make him feel better and
on one of his good days (hi there deity .
but i ' ll do something .
well , this is what it’s going to be like , then .
held the line firm and commenced to haul it in .
" " what ' s it all about ?
finally , though , i went back to trout-fishing , because i found that i could remember all the streams
' ' if you will feel very softly .
“it stiffened that way .
“that’s one for the medical journal , george , ” he said .
the water and splashed ashore .
as the bus ground slowly up the road we could see other mountains coming up in the south .
nick drank the coffee , the coffee according to hopkins .
' ' let ' s have a fine time , ' the colonel said .
three of them were sitting on the high wine-cask beside brett , teaching her to drink out of the wine-skins
i don ' t know why .
in may _num_ .
just right .
light whips , why did they not teach you about nets and that lights are dangerous ?
" " i don ' t think so .
the current had freshened up with the sun down and i noticed it running in .
it is your hand you touch them with .
now he could still feel all of that trail with bare feet .
" better weather for me than for you , fish .
a dash across the road for the far houses .
pressed firm against him .
when we wanted quinine he would order it captured .
" the referee is talking to john and he says , " what could i do ?
” “this one , no .
the bartender didn ' t say anything .
the square and back to the hotel .
something was strange if his father was there and there was no drumming .
but i haven’t thought about it all afternoon .
" it was a wonder , " manuel said .
" don ' t talk about it .
little to one side of the base of his skull .
i looked at him carefully .
bratchen daughter , what about writing , my dear beauty ?
" it ' s all right .
" that ' s all right , " doctor wilcox said .
if it wasn ' t for that lorry last night .
now he was going to show me something .
" go on , " his voice sounded strange to him .
” “tonight , sent by the police , they come to serenade me .
they came from my grandmother , and she had them from her mother who had them from her mother .
manuel came up to the barrera for a drink of water .
_num_ st soldier—just one more .
, getting so close that the bull could see him plainly , offering the body , offering it again a
of other stories .
from the water and then re-entered it , smoothly , like a diver and the old man saw the great
way we feel about it .
but i can ' t get started .
look how they just waited for you to come back and then practically got drunk before supper and afterwards .
” “i’ll show them to you sometime .
the next day we were busy all morning packing and ending the summer .
upstairs was open under the roof and was where bill and his father and he , nick , sometimes slept
his lips .
manuel , standing in the hallway , felt there was some one in the room .
but , he thought , i keep them with precision .
i found i could only remember back to that attic in my grandfather ' s house .
the next afternoon i drove out to fontan’s , through the shade of the town , then along the dusty
but the others .
you drink to us when we ' re gone .
at least i hope so .
just read about him in the papers .
” “you talk silly , ” al said to him .
they had not spoken for a long time and the colonel had noted that the gondola had only inches free
the fire was bright now , just at the edge of the trees .
” “but you think today’s a good day ?
do it , she said .
and emphasizing her straight nose and her close-set ears .
poor people and their shack housing which is such a feature of all the greater antilles , no matter what
” the headwaiter said the cook had gone home and there was no fire in the kitchen .
i caught two yesterday .
i tell you the literary life ' s the thing , ' pop said .
' wouldn ' t you like to sit down , my colonel ?
" we drove straight down , turning around the lion de belfort that guards the passing montrouge trams .
the bull tossed him and he was clear .
“everything he says will be used against him .
karl and i had each tried to give the other the better chance on everything that came up .
' what you thinking about now ?
looked enough like him to be twins .
shift more of the strain to it and he shrugged the muscles of his back to shift the hurt of
we were all at the hospital every afternoon , and there were different ways of walking across the town through
“mummy was a great comfort , ” she said .
you must forgive me .
i stood in front of the door of mike ' s room and knocked .
twice the police arrested us and once the governments .
she’s a jewish girl .
i was sorry for him , but it was not a thing you could do anything about , because right
braddocks was his literary friend .
' ' that is different .
but i have had worse things than that , he thought .
" " where did he go now ?
those are something .
had served its allotted time in the car of a provincial doctor and had been purchased out of one of
he did not speak again .
they were going to sleep in the lorry .
" " i don ' t know , john .
it was a forest of cork oaks , and the sun came through the trees in patches , and there
" " stop talking that way , carl , " said mrs .
" his father was not looking at him .
” john said to him .
the grass of the savannah and the dried bed of the lake showed a white-grey with many small animals humping
' ' you know we cannot have it in these months .
the place always made me angry because the waiters were a crooked lot of profiteers and it was about as
that and the fact that cats know how to look after themselves was all the good luck that old man
" perhaps just a little .
" " no , " said doc fischer .
_mangin_ , _maginot_ and _gamelin_ .
” “i never learned , ” she told him .
" don ' t jump .
i looked at my father .
followed him and come close to him in the clearing so that he had seen the great tusks .
“i am so sorry .
" he felt very tired now and he knew the night would come soon and he tried to think of
" do your own business .
" ' i don ' t know , ' said olz .
it was all great fun for us , the deep-sea fishing on the pilar that gregorio fuentes , the mate
“she is a fine woman of great intelligence and sympathy .
sat in the shadow the leaves of the tree made against the electric light .
it ' s a sin against our lord and saviour .
them to skid out the hemlock bark the indians cut .
stone tablets .
many must be educated .
white rock .
ten thousand dollars if his insurance is paid up in our army .
thank you , ” said peduzzi , in the tone of one member of the carleton club accepting the morning
as rough as the sea when a line squall comes up , said .
ain’t got any beer .
how is everything , paco , old boy , old paco ?
i took his temperature .
, we had cold teal , the best of ducks to eat , fine , plump , and tender ,
“what does he say ?
in the austrian army these pockets were in the back of the breeches and the dead , after a short
in the night i spat something strange and felt something in my chest was broken .
' ' i couldn ' t even imagine .
, heads low , in a hollow half full of ashes and dust , watching through the dried leaves and
he smelled the tar and oakum of the deck as he slept and he smelled the smell of africa that
' he stopped , and thought truly , but off-key , and said , ' no .
and put one arm down and lean on it and put her legs out straight .
it was an absolutely perfect obstacle .
we killed him .
' are they lesbians ?
later he felt the need to talk but no one wanted to hear about it .
” “i’m almost sure .
" " no , but i hope to be .
” “cut it out about the sheet .
fontan sat down in a corner with his head in his hands .
“and i’ve got a bad headache .
" spread it out in front of you , " i said .
he sat down .
we had a cognac .
mike was already in bed .
” and he described it .
" what do you want to do ?
“he said that .
not when i first saw him .
“well , ” said guy , “he went twenty kilometres with us .
” “oh , they’ll go with us .
” “fuck elephant hunting , ” david had said very quietly .
it always sounded as though she meant them anyway .
” his mother said .
“the other was a present .
not even you .
” “it is all right , ” enrique said .
” “do you know where we swam this morning was the loveliest beach i’ve ever seen .
' keep your eyes open and take a left hand turn on the road leading off this pike , '
it shivered and was still .
montoya was sitting about ten places away .
it was all simple now .
' ' you ' re lovely .
' ' how do you do that ?
wheeler was writing in longhand because he did not wish to uncover the typewriter in the lenten wind .
“what’s mr .
dentuso , he thought .
' ' mama _piga_ , ' m ' cola said .
the food was good and so was the wine .
i ' m sorry i asked the question .
they were standing there , under considerable fire , looking carefully over all the broken country below the ridge and
rise of the hill toward the plaza callao where the florida hotel faced down the other little hill where the
” “no , ” he said .
' ' don ' t take off your tunic , please .
” “not quite .
don’t i , bright boy ?
" where ' s brett and mike ?
america was a wonderful place he thought .
“un français de la californie !
somebody bound to get mauled .
" i went to loyola with bishop manning myself .
“you know when i get going i’m good , ” manuel said .
" it ' s my country , you see .
you know i wrote a diary of that alaskan trip .
out beyond where the headlands of the concha almost met to form the harbor there was a white line of
striped table cloths on the others and on all of them baskets with pretzels in glazed paper sacks .
i am all right .
she knelt there .
, and passing were the white walls and many windows of houses .
“i don’t think so , ” she said .
he had come out of retirement to compete with marcial , knowing it was a competition gained in advance .
he wrote that vienna was wonderful .
would you come over with me to the dome ?
but the old man thought , i have such a heart too and my feet and hands are like theirs
' he ' s in there , ' pop whispered .
this was loaded with lumber , and the arriero driving the mules leaned back and put on the thick wooden
they fell a little toward us .
“yes , ” said my wife .
yesterday he had driven down from trieste to venice along the old road that ran from montfalcone to latisana and
by that time , though , he had other things to worry about .
littless was not back yet and nick sat down on the log of the fallen tree they were using for
but he was nervous and it made him angry at himself .
” “will you love me always ?
profiteer of milan , who had , in the course of a dispute over property , accused his young wife
" " what you come over here for ?
“what you got there ?
sometimes they won’t even deploy .
, and reached the bank of the river .
“signorina , ” peduzzi called tenderly , “come up here with us .
they should not have gotten out , ever , of course .
” “seven francs .
” “hogan was here .
” “oh , until past two this morning .
” asked john .
" the bull-fight on the second day was much better than on the first .
but we are not russians .
” the second waiter asked manuel .
he wanted the crew list and i told him nobody .
others lay on the ground without ever having got up .
he placed them against the wall of the barrel and hung his other shell bag between them , hanging it
i’ll cache everything and we can go in there through the timber all the way and pick a couple of
" he ' s a taxidermist .
nick , waxing his skis in the baggage car , pushed his boots into the toe irons and shut the
the bus .
wish to share this life with anyone who was not there , only to live it , being completely happy
' ' of course , if you _like_ to do it .
” we went out to the car and drove back to fontan’s , stopping on the way to leave the
“but we don’t have to track .
” “i think so , ” he said .
" i wonder if he got one .
" " f---- yourself , " said the artillery officer .
” marjorie said .
i would like to see this english lady .
he took a folded ten-thousand kronen note out of a leather pocket-book and unfolded it .
he pointed the legs with the knives on them forward and held the chair over his head with the two
this is true , no matter what people tell you , but it is to be avoided , and is
nothing had happened .
counteract the feeling of inferiority and shyness he had felt on being treated as a jew at princeton .
we were all there .
” “i am sorry , maria .
sort of like a moving picture palace , isn ' t it ?
with the grey eyebrows over the softly hooded eyes and the ever happy face of the old soldier who is
don ' t be rough .
” “come on with us , ” i said .
the wind was blowing straight down the lake .
old hunter and the girl and how it was then in the different seasons .
“do what the captain says .
the trout jumped out of water to take them .
the bar .
people were coming into the square from all sides , and down the street we heard the pipes and the
“is a german .
then cohn said he wouldn ' t hit him again .
it was an amputation the young man performed , horace .
' ' eff florence , ' the colonel said .
' and supply him with the atomic bomb .
you cannot say more ---- than wyoming because there are less than thirty thousand there , perhaps , hell ,
“i know , ” said nick .
the hands cure quickly , he thought .
showed .
in the afternoon we moved up into the house .
street that ran back from the chapel into town .
this was all right .
she hasn ' t had an absolutely happy life .
" " let ' s find bill .
that ' s not an excuse , ' he added .
montoya walked in .
do you remember when everybody thought if we only had tanks ?
there was always a way out .
" manuel asked .
droop carried my big gun and pop had his .
' cold , and with mayonnaise .
he was ceding line but more slowly all the time .
" i have .
back street that the bulls pass along when they run through the streets early in the morning on their way
” the innkeeper spoke to the sexton .
this waiter , also , was indignant and the flit gun man squirted him twice more , lightheartedly .
not as we know voices who have heard the good ones in our time .
" you haven ' t eaten anything .
” “into key west .
on that steep hillside .
i had the gun up waiting for whatever it was to show .
i helped you finish the other two .
we just call them jews .
" i must have been sleeping , " he said .
you know i can’t win anyway .
had hung on the inside of the blind to hold shells .
” “all right , ” bill said .
he ' d show them .
“we’ll cut them off before they get to the swamp .
if you stay long enough in a room the view , whatever it is , acquires a great value and
they are the best soldiers .
men and boys dancing .
blue hills beyond .
" where does he live ?
' ' shoot me in the pants , ' i said .
trust it there .
“i feel all right .
” “you go to sleep , my baby .
have tramps codes of conduct ?
” “you’re not going to die .
" " put it on the bill , " jack says .
sometimes you have to switch fast .
“i’d been saving it for the bad weather , ” bill said .
' molo raised the back of the tent , propping it with sticks , so the wind blew through and
he walked fifteen miles each day from the river to the high , stony ground and he would fight any
manuel was thinking about the three lads in back of him .
" " au show .
brett ' s mad to go .
i can’t sleep .
“i’ll go up there .
i wonder what became of the others , the italians .
the trees and there was a big crowd around there , too , but the man at the door in
” bugs turned from the fire .
but i guess that only would have worried her .
my countrymen sit down , or lie down , or fall down .
i mustn’t .
but daddy paid him adequately for the portrait , and , while it is not truly me , it is
it ' s foolproof .
“you’re certainly in a hell of a shape , ” the man told him .
ahead there was a railway crossing , and as we came toward it the gates went down .
we knew how those felt , waiting .
" he laughed , then tapped his stomach .
“let’s finish the wine and go , ” al said .
it seems that he also assembled a group of extramilitary scouts keeping pace with the retreating germans .
porch in rocking chairs .
" i want to go all by myself and shoot all by myself .
" " that ' s strange .
sizing up each clearing as to feed and cover and figuring where you would find a covey and which way
there was a long conversation in which our david simulated the killing of half a dozen kudu from different types
but in a game like that is the only time i don’t think about tomorrow .
" good-by , " we said .
compton started the motor and got in .
went on talking he brought out words he was not sure of , and asked me about them .
' ' and if we were such a thing as married would you practise your trade in the home ?
” “a little .
soon he will have to circle .
" you want to see him ?
i can ' t say i like one better than another .
' the _gran maestro_ said , for this taking of towns had pulled him out of his depth .
i don ' t believe it , though .
there was a bundle of letters and some papers .
brett came out with bill and joined us .
i hope not , anyway .
ain’t that it ?
things truly to take with me .
there are other wounds lower down and on my legs .
“we’ll throw it all away .
“we’re doing all right on the money .
but the bulls went right on and did not notice him .
” they drank all that was in their glasses .
eat it all although i am not hungry .
“i think there’s another bottle open in the locker , ” bill said .
that night at the shamba .
' ' yes , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
legs caving .
' droopy said grinning .
looking at the way the tracks graded down through the pleasant forest i thought that we had the mammoths too
he looked pale , and his coleta pinned forward on his head , so that it would not show under
" " not i .
feet of dark water .
” “not me .
who owned the saloon in medicine bow when you worked for the people that gave it to tom ?
at least the kind of strength that i need .
the water was ice cold .
he had stopped clowning with the language and was speaking good french now and had been for some time .
" " they are married .
" " one the first day .
i told you that once .
if they believe the critics when they say they are great then they must believe them when they say they
' you always hope you have a good master .
“i don’t think so .
“sportsman is the best .
” “i wrote a note to our mother and told her i was going with you to keep you out
“i hope you didn’t lose your temper , henry .
on feeding .
we wanted to come last night .
“i just started to love this sheet .
” “any that is not too old so that the red is faded .
tight , his body muscles quivering as he looked up at the crowd on the stone walls .
' i didn ' t know you were a writer , mr .
in the river .
once our luck starts to run .
' ' is that what fighting ' s like ?
he had a leather helment with a heavy leather padded ridge longitudinally over the top and a heavily padded leather
” captain willie continued on his way up the channel , the two-cylinder palmer coughing steadily .
' ' what ' s the tariff ?
he had been sitting there some time .
the street that ran up toward the pantheon and the other that he always took with the bicycle , the
now .
is many times more determined .
“you don’t mean you want to sell trout .
river bed , and across to the steep opposite bank of the stream , and from where we could see
i sat down at a table .
" and as for this robert cohn , " bill said , " he makes me sick , and he
it was not his country but it was the middle of fall and all of this country was good to
it was very hot and the tight boots of the day before had chafed p .
” “he’s a pretty cold one , ” hogan said .
" " that next big cape ought to put it out of sight .
' ' do you believe it ?
“nous sommes des copains , ” one called in a deep voice , rich with alcohol .
a rather high forehead , who had been clowning around from table to table , squirted one of the waiters
my dearest kind lovely love .
“i’m very hungry .
i heard him listening , so i moved again in the blankets .
" i think this is cool .
let ' s stand on the one we have and pull out and join karl .
him , the balance of the estate having gone to his mother , hardened into a rather unattractive mould under
nervesa .
and any son of a bitch who has been hit solidly , as every man will be if he stays
he used to fight ten , twelve , fifteen times a day .
ernest hemingway _num_ the short happy life of francis macomber it was now lunch time and they were all sitting
the bull picked another man running in front , but the man disappeared into the crowd , and the crowd
there wasn ' t any answer .
but i would come back to where it pleased me to live ; to really live .
" i would have thought you ' d loved being a steer , robert .
if you like we can stroll back down this street , or walk it fast and ask those two that
” “pine country can be so friendly too .
" " see anybody ?
look at the uniform .
it ' s liable to turn really cold to-night if this wind holds and it ought to bring in plenty
sea while he watched the sun go into the ocean and the slant of the big cord .
' abdullah agreed it was a bull ; a huge bull .
“cette putain guerre , ” claude said .
” roger came back with the morning papers and a carton of cigarettes .
i like to drink it unknown .
there’s a good skate , that old willie .
" " don ' t call me ' signor maggiore .
" that was why we left the continent , you know .
' this has been rigidly confirmed by some politician in uniform who has never killed in his life , except
“it don’t do you any good to talk like that .
you shot well and alvarito understands .
" " you can ' t just like that .
the sun had gone under and it was sprinkling rain .
" " i think he ' s a good writer , too , " bill said .
for christ sake have yourself some fun .
" " robert cohn .
i did not track but kept watching ahead thinking i might see him as he looked back , or see
” “all right , ” said george .
at breakfast they were all three at the table before daylight and francis macomber found that , of all the
' good-bye , _gran maestro_ , ' he said and smiled and gave the _gran maestro_ his crooked hand .
“you know how worthless a nurse i am .
she was a day late and had wired about it .
' i ' m talking true .
but the old man sat there without moving .
" it doesn ' t make any difference about the wine .
“dear sheet , ” he said .
the two steers backed away against the wall , their heads sunken , their eyes watching the bull .
' ' who were these ?
the train was coming straight down the tracks now getting closer and closer and bigger and bigger .
got shot down and bailed out , ” one of the flyers said .
" did you really like it ?
“it’s getting too late to go around without socks , ” he said .
it collared up when you poured it into the tall glasses .
' you only told me about the ulcers .
m ' cola came up .
he was terrible .
have you any whisky in that long flask ?
' you ' ll wish .
don ' t you think he ' s wonderful ?
came close down into the head of the valley .
" " she wishes to see me .
' he looked over the country once more , and heard the wind in the trees and smelled the heather
what rot , i could hear brett say it .
just hold me very tight and hold the high ground , too .
“come on and eat , nick , ” “all right .
it over the cage .
” the volkswagen driver had no control of his vehicle after red shot .
” “they’re dead , ” said someone .
” “oh , no .
that is one thing .
they were old men .
who knows ?
“how do you feel , kid ?
you’re a fine man and it breaks my heart to go off and leave you—” “you have to , of
moved the magazine , and he didn ' t even pay her fare back to the coast .
we all moved over to the big table by the wall to have coffee .
he watched them holding themselves with their noses into the current , many trout in deep , fast moving water
” they drove on in the night now with the swamp dark and high on both sides of the road
that ' s what the paper said .
your cattle would die and you would get no price for your coffee .
garner , ” nick said .
some quickly from a little wound you would not think would kill a rabbit .
' we came on a dead run but the bull was out of sight in the timber on the hillside
” his wife said nothing and eyed him strangely .
” “i never played with him , ” said the fat one .
all the old women in the camp had been helping her .
you can sell the horn if you don ' t want it .
" george did not say anything .
' m ' cola said , making the word for dead almost explosive in its force .
his outstretched , wide-nostrilled muzzle , and he was raising his rifle when wilson shouted , “not from the car
chapter xxii he loved the market .
” “no , hombre , no .
" " bad , " mr .
“i’m walking .
" " what do you think i want to do , get sick ?
the tail .
pools where it had cut under the roots of the birches .
” “where did you learn your english ?
it is too dom bad the attack is no good .
“frau !
i ' ll get killed sometime that way , he thought .
straight down as he swung his body clear of the right horn .
it was hard to lift such a big jug up to drink out of it .
" how did you sleep old man ?
pop with his big gun and m ' cola carrying mine .
he didn ' t look at george but looked in the mirror that ran along back of the counter .
“do you want the memsahib to go ?
” “no , ” said doc fisher .
he was wearing droopy ' s tunic and that he had been a porter before he became a gun bearer
went off with cohn .
we had very severe discipline but no formality except when we were back at division or when we wanted to
: ' you ' ve got to fix me up with some medals .
mountains with sudden depths of green-rising forest and the solid bamboo slopes , and then the heavy forest again ,
” the little man with the thick-lensed glasses was looking at al intently .
” “how much are they worth a head ?
' the fright p .
the box with the baits was under the stern of the skiff along with the club that was used to
he came back to say they were gone .
nothing’s got any value , jimmy .
" " too damn long , " john said .
when the old man had gaffed her and clubbed her , holding the rapier bill with its sandpaper edge and
fish if you are to learn about them , and now , at thirty-eight , he loved to fish and
i saw him reach for the bottle and tip it up .
“that’s what i’m hired for , you know .
i wish to hell she was here though , if this were a double blind and have her looking to
to hell with this operating-table !
we should not question .
if he ' d only killed it clean instead of following it through the whole damn countryside .
but it had the advantage of you moving while you do it and that you look at the houses ,
no one in the place paid any attention to him .
you make me happy .
“in about an hour , wemedge , ” she said .
but where ?
' but i spit good now for a man who doesn ' t chew .
they were going down the aisle , the detective ahead holding a gun in his right hand and the prisoner
“those peasants are beasts , ” said the innkeeper .
poured out three big shots .
” “i’ll dig up the back , ” fontan offered .
you don ' t want to get sore at him .
” the three of us , jack brennan , soldier bartlett , and i were in hanley’s .
“no , they wouldn’t .
“you stay here , ” nick told his sister .
pitiful look on his face .
” retana asked .
“she never seen me fight .
beggar had probably been afraid all his life .
of the camels .
wine-seller—i’ll tell you , gentlemen , i wasn’t out there .
" i ' ve never known it to do me any good .
he figured it took twelve and one half minutes to reach the place where his true love would probably arrive
” “i’ll try not to be .
maybe he was there when he was a boy .
' i was so sure sounding that they agreed to this and searched for a while but i could see
” below us some men stood up , half crouching , and ran forward toward a stone house in a
“up in the catskills , ” said al .
you drunken sleepy bum .
' ' no , i ' ve done it all my life .
obligation and no compulsion to write , happy in knowing that at four o ' clock we would be starting
had been the crater was smoothly grassed .
they were hunting game .
face it yet .
_can_ .
sun from between the line of trees , and away off you could see the plateau of pamplona rising out
there’s two american girls at the florida .
" she turned to frances , sitting smiling , her hands folded , her head poised on her long neck
hanged any amount of old pals .
gave me more horror than anything i could remember except one time in a hospital with my right arm broken
he must have gone down from there .
“they take the liquor and the boat and you go to jail .
an alpine idyll it was hot coming down into the val ley even in the early morning .
corto y derecho .
maybe you could never write them , and that was why you put them off and delayed the starting .
” george and i went out to the gate and i was trying to stop bawling and george wiped off
not all i want but all there is .
” “you got another shirt ?
mola in the north .
romero laughed .
“fontan had three bottles of wine .
you just covered them over with something and let them go to it .
_num_ st soldier—just another round .
she seemed worried .
macomber did not know how the lion had felt before he started his rush , nor during it when the
maybe the same fellow that shot him .
this is the best one we have around here .
if the boy were here .
" why don ' t they start ?
did you ever hear a blind man won’t smoke because he can’t see the smoke come out ?
” “as i recall , the arab was standing holding the camel .
was almost comfortable .
' you couldn ' t read it .
" " no , listen , jake .
' ' i don ' t slave too hard at it , ' the colonel said .
i heard frances had left for england and i had a note from cohn saying he was going out in
" we started on again down the boulevard .
i held him and could feel the thumping of his heart through the soft , warm , furry body ,
' ' to go and get dressed properly and be ready to start .
” “you want to talk a while ?
he meant it , simply and truly .
do we want big men--or do we want them cultured ?
beaten .
" he ' s pretty tired .
there was a knock at the door .
“i have to get supper .
' ' except for us , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
“he’s always in bed when his wife gets back from the show .
they were all playing at gotterdammerung .
" he was a thin little boy , but his face looked sixteen .
he just looked over our heads and said , " what ' s yours ?
“how would you like these ?
" i ' m damned fond of him .
you ' re on a trip to have fun .
" in a little while the probationer came into the room again .
, bow-legged , in tight breeches over his high-heeled cattlemen’s boots that clicked on the floor as he swaggered quite
' ' i have it , ' she said .
he could see denver from the _denver post_ , and correct the picture from _the rocky mountain news_ .
the shot was possible but it was too long to be certain and as i lay , watching , i
” “i distrust all priests , monks , and sisters , ” said the thin one .
we went through a little knot of brush and a small rabbit started out , zigzagging wildly and all the
“hey , ” he called over to the other boat .
i can handle tanks good now .
it seemed this new country was a gift .
following and organizing the road races had made him know france .
but you have to get the ones with a vocation for it .
through my chest .
it , for the family , himself , to be a great writer , kate , the men , odgar
the pic , making a wound , enforcing the iron into the bull ' s shoulder , making him bleed
" " not really ?
he was smoking a pipe .
” “it was a mistake , ” bill said .
" now i must get your sardines and mine and your fresh baits .
he had only seen the light from it .
' we were looking out over that grass .
it’s illegal if that’s what you mean .
' ' in the meantime you might as well drink this .
the man sat there looking into the fire .
“your goddam pig’s feet stink , ” tom said , and spit what he had in his mouth on the
the hoppers , flying with the wind , fly against the length of netting and are imprisoned in its folds
so in the dark , following this ideal line , we descended into steep ravines that showed only as wooded
they’re done for .
every street was full .
the head down against the stick and mud cabin .
i put on my pajamas and got into bed .
" i love you , count .
” “who did you get them from ?
we are hung as we are hung , for better or worse , or something , or something awful .
do you ?
my colonel will reveal to you the secrets of the order .
“now i’m your sister but i’m a boy , too .
either it’s too early or too late or the wind isn’t right or the moon is wrong .
' we hunted along a road .
many people were watching the house burn .
hung back over his withers .
” they heard billy shoot .
the sun , and the porters were happy , crouched around their fires roasting the meat on sticks .
top branches where they could not see him .
bed on the newspapers .
' ' what _have_ you been drinking ?
” “and arturo ?
i am a boy and i must obey him .
” the sun came through the open window and shone through the beer bottles on the table .
machines .
" " could i help you ?
' i suspected so , ' the head keeper said .
” he did not look like a shepherd nor a herdsman and i looked at his black dusty clothes and
" they ' re big ones with horns , " manuel agreed .
merde , he thought , we did very well that winter up at the junction .
robert browning , nor for their dog .
what do you have to hurt her for you bastard ?
i’m glad to see this at first hand .
then i will have them decanted for you .
then we waited for two that didn ' t come .
” “you’ve never seen a cathedral , have you ?
they unfolded the dark-stained red flannel of the muletas and fixed batons in them to spread the stuff and give
“i’ll get everything out of here .
batter smoothly and watched it bubble and then start to firm around the edges .
" " who did you think i went down to san sebastian with ?
" you go , billy .
he spat into the ocean and said , " eat that , galanos .
the steer who had been gored had gotten to his feet and stood against the stone wall .
she wouldn ' t want a d .
but he could see the prisms in the deep dark water and the line stretching ahead and the strange undulation
going to sleep that night .
he knew there were good cures in kansas city .
” “yes , ” said nick .
jack hadn’t drunk anything since the one drink .
” “wet , ” i said , and he laughed with his head on one side .
the count andrea is there and he is rather drunk , ettore says , but not too drunk for you
' yes , ' i said .
but they had to repair a camera , to change film and seal up what we had made so i
i have led my ruffians where they were well peppered .
up with a rebolera that made the apron swing in a stiff arc past the bull’s nose as he walked
but suddenly , walking through the woods , it was much cooler .
" i came from fornaci , " nick said .
i was never ashamed of the ribbons , though , and sometimes , after the cocktail hour , i would
you might as well look , too , " nick said to the signallers .
through wooded hills overlooking the long yellow stretch of plains of the masai steppes , down and through farming country
eyes watching , horns straight forward , the bull looked at him , watching .
and turned off the road to the left on to a red , hard , clay track that circled the
' he ' s over there , ' pop said , and we went over .
" number _num_ , mister brennan .
very slowly , resting on one elbow , then dropped the cup down under the bar on to the ground
he looked at mr .
and hold it so it does not slip .
i know they are bored .
door and the index door , and hollis sands was right behind willie sawyer who was gouging for the eye
he smiled his dirty little pink-and-white smile .
i’ve got three i can rely on .
hernandez came over from speaking with his own manager .
it’s no use to walk ahead and find there’s nothing coming behind you .
" " what bloody-fool things people do .
he really was as nice and pleasant and still as marvelously efficient as george , the chasseur at the ritz
' that ' s beech , isn ' t it ?
then the good lion circled higher and higher and set his course for venice .
for years he had never enjoyed fried bananas because he had never been able to wait for them to cool
the bartender put out the bottle and glass and a glass of water .
" why do old men wake so early ?
” zurito asked .
” “i’ve just started on it .
' and forgive me for talking badly .
three houses up the street was hirsch ' s rooming-house .
of his battalions , and of individual people .
her dark hair lay , long and heavy , over his good arm .
knife in but it was short and pushed the heart away .
it was fresh and nice as you want it below , no smell at all .
they had forgotten about him .
they tried to have a baby in paris .
“why don’t you ask some questions instead of answering them ?
the gate was up , and i sat on one of the squared timbers and watched the smooth apron of
nick got in behind with kate and odgar .
where i come from they speak german .
she went down to san sebastian with him .
then you go to sleep , daughter , please .
he really did .
” “i know it .
” “we have the same shoulders and the same kind of legs .
" that night jack didn ' t sleep any either .
" " i didn ' t sleep very well .
it always is slipping my mind .
he did not go all the way down but straightened out and swam along and up through the cool ,
” “people don’t die with a fever of one hundred and two .
they were on a straight stretch of road now and were making time so that one farm blended , almost
were playing the accordion .
” “oh god , ” the nigger said .
then i had a date myself , and paula wasn ' t at her office .
' ' we ' ll run them out of the country .
north and south of the rue saint jacques and then walked south , past val de grâce , set back
i ' m tired of you both .
" " i ' ll pay you soon , " he said .
muscle above the bull ' s shoulder , leaned all his weight on the shaft , and with his left
” “thank you .
do it .
' kufa , ' i whispered , meaning that i would shoot the lion in the neck and kill him
the boy lay face downward on the raft and talked to her .
' ' i know it , my dear .
he ' s been beat up so much he ' s slug-nutty .
brett was looking at him quite coolly , but the corners of her eyes were smiling .
“you can’t fire me because i’ve got down off my bicycle .
“up back of the camp .
who you going to cut in bed ?
” “i got into this town last night , ” william campbell said , speaking against the sheet .
“for old comrade claus .
snow at teruel .
either it will be over right away and the government will put it down or there will be plenty of
“i’m not quite right .
anything to say about it , and who knows but what i will have , is the employment of a
then too , remember he hasn ' t eaten since he took the bait and he is huge and needs
look at me .
“i understand and i approve .
of flat , baked mud and then the grassy savannah and the forest .
blue hills , dark under the heavy sky , and i felt very badly not to have seen the roman
“we might as well say good-bye to it , ” nick adams said .
” he put out the other hand .
" " i can ' t tell him .
the balance between fiction and nonfiction in his stories of the period , including the previously unpublished “black ass at
the boy left him there and when he came back the old man was still asleep .
' he fought , yes .
" you ' re my manager .
“never mind , old pal .
then it was stopped and we hoped it had been nothing or perhaps only the wind .
this increased cohn ' s distaste for boxing , but it gave him a certain satisfaction of some strange sort
they were traders as well and several of them were doges of this city as you know .
and , finally , out level .
" oh , well .
i don ' t care about seeing them again .
once it starts there isn’t going to be any end to it .
there was a herd of hundreds of cattle ahead being driven down to the coast by somali cattle buyers ;
' you know that another woman , or a woman in memory , is a terrible thing for a young
where fertility , money , blood and iron is ; there is the fatherland .
the bicycle-racers had left several copies of l ' auto around , and i gathered them up in the reading-room
manuel drank a glass of water poured for him by one of retana ' s deputies , who was acting
” “we’re on the road .
sing , ” i said to eddy .
“oh , daddy , can’t you give her something to make her stop screaming ?
and i ' m through with this whole subject .
with m ' cola coming on our tracks .
" but you haven ' t seen it yet .
" he ' ll probably be dead later on .
“did i sleep awfully late ?
’and this game is even worse .
' absolutely no .
i’ve seen it there too .
” “please tell me about it .
i knew that now , reading it in the oversensitized state of my mind after much too much brandy ,
” “you will not say such things !
, achieved with an old coat and a safety pin , whose modesty , pleasantness and skill i admired so
left is loud .
it would be good training .
i tipped the concierge and read the message again .
" " it ' s ten o ' clock .
i can ' t even marry mike .
" last week he tried to commit suicide , " one waiter said .
the wind was blowing a gale .
i was watching the sun now and worrying about it being gone before they got up with the cameras .
he expected the feeling he had had about the lion to come back but it did not .
and terrain is what remains in the dreaming part of your mind .
monty was a character who needed fifteen to one to move , and then moved tardily .
" william campbell held the sheet around his head .
” “i’d like to walk down .
i couldn ' t even head the opposition even though i don ' t have to sit on telephone books
why not make money on it ?
that was in the ospedale maggiore in milano , padiglione ponte .
, travelled forward , assured that relief was at hand ; and i was not disappointed .
let’s quit fighting about it .
with light and singing coming out of the wine-shops , and sometimes having to walk into the street when the
outside , the snow was turning to rain .
“the third one ?
he’s about the most interesting man i know .
" don ' t try and make me drunk .
the spanish girl called manolita , very neat , demurely dressed , with a sort of false french chic ,
what i was reading .
that sounds like an innocent occupation , but cohn had read and reread " the purple land .
i ran toward him , then slowed to walk up carefully , in order not to be blown if he
" ole andreson looked at the wall and did not say anything .
it’s cool too .
” “and he is dead ?
just the sweetest little thing in the world , and he thought she was wonderful , and then i came
each time nick set a heavy slab of driftwood across the butt of the rod to hold it solid and
damn , didn’t he feel like something when i horsed him out though ?
droopy was a real savage with lids to his eyes that nearly covered them , handsome , with a great
he is still running it and they say it is the best bar in franco’s spain .
they were pedaling steadily , slumped forward and their boots were too big for the pedals .
” “all right , ” he said .
as soon as his credit ran out .
" it was amazing champagne .
we were on the top of the height of land that was the highest part of the range of wooded
two hundred yards down the hillside the fire line stopped .
it should be sharp and not tempered so it will break .
” “i hope i can place it properly , ” macomber said .
it takes six months to make a good tank man , i mean to know anything .
they ' re working on stuff , though .
i looked for brett and mike at the tables .
you others keep the road cut .
” “you’ll make sure ?
if you could forget the morning .
i had started to pull when i lowered the rifle .
spray vapor .
' ' i remember that from before .
it was all held together by membranes and a skillfully applied bandage now soaked and hardened , with the structure
i must inquire .
" " sure , they ' re horses .
“that’s the hell of it .
we were standing watching him skip rope .
“don’t you think it is very significant ?
“it’s a sin against purity .
mais on ne mange pas très bien .
“i believe you , sir , ” the waiter said .
we came on into sight of camp and shouted .
“hit me , ” he moved his head .
the edges were crisped from the bacon fat .
" " why should it ?
back on the highway again , and out of the heat of the town , they ate the sandwiches and
outside the horses on the wood sledges made an occasional sharp jangle of bells as they tossed their heads .
” “he was gay all right , ” i said .
he was looking at me steady .
it builds me up too much .
he shoved in his starboard clutch and the engines roared as he pushed up the throttle .
“that upper beach from where we were was a fine place to land .
“we don’t make much .
not any lousy pillow .
' the colonel whispered ; holding her tight , and with his heart broken , honestly and fairly , in
he had no love for the elephant yet .
“do you want eddy to put it out and hand it to you if one strikes so you can hook
we drive straight here from genoa .
i’m coming up a minute , ” he said and climbed up very slowly and carefully .
“you get in front .
it serving drinks .
" dear sheet , " he said .
” “you seem in top-hole shape .
the sun will bake it out well now , he thought .
' i haven ' t seen anything to prove it .
“you’re the judge of that .
” “come on , baldy , snap out of it .
' you low class soldier .
” “seen the paper ?
“roger , do you still love me ?
we ' re short on whisky but there ' s a bottle .
to give .
chapter _num_ outside the bar milano i found bill and mike and edna .
“who killed him ?
then that poor man will feel better .
the old man leaned the mast with its wrapped sail against the wall and the boy put the box and
' ' let me look at your face and you not look at mine .
_ _num_ st soldier_--sure , go on and kid him .
you ran into another white hunter and you asked , “how is everything going ?
but you can show me .
everybody was looking funny and saying “kzar” in sort of a sick way and them pounding nearer down the stretch
' s shoulder .
i had had no chance to train them ; no power to discipline .
“retana , ” he said and banged the door .
bad swamp that you can’t get through .
he can ' t see them yet , but they are going to come and that will make him feel
everything is much smaller when you are older .
he did not seem to recognize us and looked all down the car .
you know the boy that sculled them out wasn’t .
driving it now only to put it behind him .
” roger asked the bar waiter .
the nurse brought some glasses .
" " i think they are equal .
he rowed the boat around to troll past both the feeding fish , then headed it for the point .
manuel went through the long room to a small room in back .
i looked over a couple of times and jack wasn’t sleeping .
" or you ' ll have to make a book and give me some of it .
he looked at the fire , then at the tent , he was not going to spoil it all by
my stetson , and sent droop ahead to look .
" " that ' s too complicated , " bill said .
and if we’re not that we’re just sort of iron perambulators to push ahead of the infantry .
" the killers the door of henry ' s lunch-room opened and two men came in .
smelled plenty strong and especially in winter .
" " you ' d never know it except from the way his face is , " the woman said
the patched sail drew , the boat began to move , and half lying in the stern he sailed south-west
i was starting to be nervous about it , and there , at the table under the dining tent fly
“look at the three of them .
" " oh , to hell with cohn , " i said .
“he just told him to go back to town .
from where they would be killed and bury them .
' ' you ' ll see .
the french of the outfit were ashamed and sore .
" we lay with our heads in the shade and looked up into the trees .
' ' maybe we better .
the old man felt faint and sick and he could not see well .
“hey , jack !
the law’s only for outsiders .
" " it ' s funny , " i said .
” “we’ll get some other shoes , ” he said .
the sun is down .
' ' it ' s a good town .
there were from eight to a dozen other people who lived at the luarca and ate in the dining room
but the thing is to have them .
if it didn ' t get so damned mixed up he could follow it all right .
two gun-bearers .
the only thing i knew was that she was crying when i met her and she cried and cried and
“you give fifty pesos to that punk and then offer me twenty when you owe me six hundred .
he drove over in a car this morning with marquez .
" " ham and eggs .
" we go too long without sleep in these fiestas .
it might have been that of a boy of nineteen .
roof .
because if you did not like them you would not publish them .
more he would have a chance to get the harpoon in .
” “i’m going to sleep , ” he said .
' said the roman excitedly .
they were all around me ; crazy yelling .
frances was dancing .
they would race through the streets and out to the bull-ring .
' ' he ' s marvellous , ' p .
” “you’re not going .
the two sets of knives and forks and spoons were in his pocket with a paper napkin wrapped around each
either forward or backward .
where they waited for the ice truck to carry them to the market in havana .
he was so good .
“please , i will stay here to shoot and they will think you’re inside .
stern to know that this had truly happened and was not a dream .
the surprising thing , next to their progressive corpulence , is the amount of paper that is scattered about the
" there were never more than two servings of lunch on that train , and always plenty of places for
a baby more than anything else in the world .
“i’ve worried about you so much , harold , ” his mother went on .
finally we came to a sort of amphitheatre , a bowl-like valley of very green grass with a small stream
" " she ' ll be all right , " mike said .
but the spell was broken .
no flying fish broke the surface and there was no scattering of bait fish .
” “i’m sorry he don’t feel well , ” the woman said .
“i hope not .
“i think that’s carrying it a little far , ” his father said .
his will , in uniform , who had elected to remain in the army for his own ends .
i don’t want to hurt you .
i saw him lower his head and jump like a bucking horse as he comes out of the chutes and
for a while i was crazy with it in the belly .
' ' bloody english ?
i saw one sable looking toward us , toward him , rather .
” “i wonder if he does .
the chairs were carved , but the seats were worn and comfortable .
of the street .
" no , no !
i suggested we fly to strasbourg and walk up to saint odile , or somewhere or other in alsace .
" " why don ' t you tell him ?
or i remember things .
he was really sleepy now .
' ' you ' ll get one .
' ' i saw him starting off with it .
' the colonel did and loved her so he could not bear it .
i looked at it , red over the trees , nudged him and he grinned .
i didn’t believe he could do it when he was so old and tired .
“now she has something on you .
“what are you going to do about it ?
storm , and we could all hear what we said .
bring .
' ' i like to drink the same wines as you if i drink wine .
“get the anchor up .
they’re working all the time .
' ' that ' s fine .
best .
it was full of smoke and drinking and singing .
did you ever come here with anyone else ?
“i see .
you could probably find it in sanscrit .
out ahead of us , a tramp steamer was going up the coast .
" john asked him .
you can write it all afterwards .
” “are you all right , billy ?
good .
” “maybe a little .
manuel turned as the bull came and raised the muleta so that it passed over the bull’s horns and swept
he felt hurt .
then his sister was his manager and they was always being written up in the papers all about brothers and
but i never knew anyone else that could shoot better at ten than this boy could ; not just show-off
' i ' m fine .
the tails .
i ' m hopped to the eyes .
although i loved to walk through cow-dung when i was a kid and feel it between my toes .
the sun was something serious by now .
cameras .
' ' and what if you haven ' t a heart , or your heart is worthless ?
he is a little delirious .
on him if he’s a kid and if he ain’t a kid he’s always got an eye on himself .
today’s tuesday .
remember him now .
the bow of the dugout with his white throat and chest , his slender legs with the delicate shaped hoofs
i had seen nothing either and my eyes ached from the pull of the eight-power glasses .
of a tree , and then on and up and down and across , all in high grass now ,
his doctor and tame ducks and a screen of moorish cavalry when he shoots .
it was all gone .
i went back in the room and got into bed .
that means he’s been in trouble .
lion kill you instead .
but there were no people in that , only things .
" mike is a swell fellow .
“kircubbin , ” george says , “and if he does , save me a couple of tickets .
” we went in .
“they’re swimming way out in the bay , ” odgar said .
" you know when i get going i ' m good , " manuel said .
“na , ” said cayetano .
you’re rum-dumb and sleepy .
we might as well stay here in the shade .
" be soft , pinin , " the adjutant said to him .
the square was as quiet in the hot sun as on any other day .
the speed of the line was cutting his hands badly but he had always known this would happen and he
“they ought to put some gravel on that stretch , ” joe garner said .
“that’s enough , harris , ” the man called doctor said .
” “the hell with you talking that way , ” doctor wilcox said .
in passing under the last bridge .
cohn came up to our table .
i put my hand to my mouth and motioned him down .
" he looks like a torero , " montoya said .
asked to come out of the hospital in the palace hotel for this show and has to be strapped in
i am glad you know .
est meilleure que le jack .
a pursuit race william campbell had been in a pursuit race with a burlesque show ever since pittsburgh .
he held her close and kissed the top of her head .
the crew in odd positions , and around them , in the grass , more of the typical papers .
they went back along the gravel path and passed in the door .
along the stream through very thick bush , but we did not find him .
' the colonel kissed her and felt her wonderful , long , young , lithe and properly built body against
' ' did you fight here , too , sir ?
cool , valuable quality and then were lost themselves .
then he thought , think of it always .
under foot from the shelling .
" good night .
" it ' ll look good .
" you must teach me spanish .
it seemed too many people to be hunting with , but they all moved quietly as snakes , and i
we sent him there .
kate came up out of the water like a seal and pulled herself up the ladder .
he had seen the sable that morning and , slightly suspicious , obviously displeased at leaving that now out-of-sight wife
the bottle lovingly .
to their left were the staff cars , mud-daubed and branch-covered , and between the two a long line of
i will leave word with the padrone at the hotel office .
” sister cecilia was observing them happily .
" " brett .
“you got nice friends .
, bronze breasts and shoulders , green under thin-flowing water_) , and when they put up the bust of flaubert
’ “‘why did you do that ?
bill didn’t touch him , either .
guy is thirty-eight and takes some pride in the fact that he is taken for a travelling salesman in france
it was brown and soft underfoot as nick walked on it .
but we ' ve had enough of a chance for me to know .
someone put his head out of the cave where brigade headquarters was and then disappeared inside .
, right over the wheel where i could reach them .
' i ' m not going to walk on it , ' karl said , looking out at the dreary
there was not all this talking .
” the down-state man asked .
whatever that means .
you can say they come from the contessa renata ' s estates and are a gift .
but it’s fun .
mother , and he ' s written a book , and nobody will publish my stuff ; nobody at all
for the meal .
' ' when i saw him put his head down between his legs and buck i knew we had him
and flowing away through the close growing mint into the swamp .
we’re going to go .
' but what could i buy you on army pay that would be like your square emeralds ?
i was dead thirsty and drained the canteen .
” “that was all right to kill that .
" " he does not like to work too far out .
david was sure that they would kill him now because he , david , had lasted through the day and
enjoying living was learning to get your money ' s worth and knowing when you had it .
" " you both going to biarritz ?
they were all swimming off the end of the dock .
” “i didn’t see .
" what are you drinking ?
you can sign here for chow .
into the carrera san jeronimo .
“give me the letter , ” hogan said .
he started a fire with some chunks of pine he got with the ax from a stump .
the boy got the rifle from the kitchen and shot him when he tried to come into the barn and
" " let ' s lay off that , " bill said .
i love you with two moderately swollen hands and all my heart .
i went to the ayuntamiento and found the old gentleman who subscribes for the bull-fight tickets for me every year
camp and cut the logs up with the cross-cut saw and split them with a wedge to make cord wood
finally he put his hand on my shoulder , put his face almost into mine and shook his head violently
“come on , ” he said .
but i suggest that we get several fiascos of the good .
' isn ' t he a beautiful bull ?
you don ' t want them killed any cleaner than that .
“how are you , john ?
in strasbourg for ?
" " oh , hell , " i said .
" " the steers took them in , in the end , " mike said .
now , the sixth boat turned south into a shallow lagoon , and there was no broken water .
of that as yet i was undecided , but it would give me pleasure if my bags were brought up
“is it raining ?
smith , who was a very large clean woman , said liz coates was the neatest girl she’d ever seen
” “aren’t you kind !
” the waiter said .
a taxi came along and i got in and gave the driver the address of my flat .
, i lifted the lug and slipped the bolt out .
native boats come riding through it .
” the young fellow said , “nice to know that , ” and put a quarter back in the machine
" " i could see it coming , " hogan said .
the young man , who was named enrique , took off his shoes and , putting them down carefully ,
" " he ' s splendid .
i wanted pictures and told m ' cola to go back to camp with the roman and bring the two
to the stone .
they’re dug deep all through there and it’s well done .
righteous at all , at ever being righteous , stopping to whisper about it , both of us grinning at
" you can have ham and eggs , bacon and eggs , liver and bacon , or a steak .
” “you’re all right , carl , ” joe garner said .
it is now the day .
they went right through the policemen with the rifles like good interference taking out an end and a tackle .
if you have a lemon you cut half of it and squeeze it into the cup and leave the rind
" " i know how you feel .
there was no other way to go but down , but how had he gone , and down which ravine
“oh , he’s very bad .
" and where are you going to be , robert ?
she held nearly two hundred gallons when i had her full .
it was all that was needed to set him off .
they made less noise and would not tear the meat up if he could not get head shots .
, a strange , heavy-shouldered , foot-swinging , cat run .
climb up , ” the local warden said .
" it ' s like miles and kilometers .
there he came , eyes open , ugly , watching the cape .
i was born here .
' ' explain it to him , ' the colonel said .
only to get a job and be married .
we’ll throw it all away now right here beside the road .
my old man’s a painter .
“what were you telling him ?
" " don ' t rub it in .
they meant it as a compliment i think but i was terribly angry and made an awful row with the
i looked at them all .
it was a small hook ; very thin and springy .
” “no i guess not .
now you can ' t stand on that one .
" " i ' m sick of paris , and i ' m sick of the quarter .
' ' i will go and check on what there actually is among the meats .
“how many tubes has the radio ?
one group claims women support you .
” “i guess i shouldn’t have come .
i love your hard , flat body and your strange eyes that frighten me when they become wicked .
“you all ready ?
lightning must still strike the house many times each summer , and when we were children there no one would
there ain ' t any room .
they saw when he struck a match .
he came over still feeling smart .
which way they would fly .
” “we’re seventeen and nineteen , ” i said .
away the grass to take some pictures .
the shark let go and rolled away .
he was shivering , his face was white , and he walked slowly as though it ached to move .
nobody , he answered .
he had been reading w .
_ _num_ d soldier_--show me a guy that doesn ' t want to come down off the cross .
“many’s the night i’ve stayed up all night for jack lighters and never shut an eye .
a good-looking lad in a silver-and-orange suit came up to manuel and smiled .
“but it gives you the idea .
he made the tour of the ring .
" " oh , you know as well as i do .
over all the lovely coolness and met hers .
he put the pots down on the table and sat down in the chair at the table .
" but this time they ' re right .
after it was dark the train was in avignon .
there wasn’t any play at the wheel nor at the crap table and at the poker game there were just
i’ll come back right away .
” “come on .
the human race , the only club that either one paid dues to and brothers , too , in their
everybody must have been below .
watchman got up and went with us to the elevator .
“all right , ” he said to the hired girl , who had opened and shut the door behind her
but they are making it pretty personal now .
“take twenty , ” she told him .
the wealthy carried umbrellas and wore draped white cloth and their women walked behind them , with their pots and
saved my government , in my time when people like benny meyers were in the trough .
i asked for the key , but the porter said there were two comrades upstairs in the room taking a
" " oh , don ' t start that again .
" " he can be damn nice .
a man could live and hunt if he had time to live and hunt .
the bull charged as romero charged .
if i ran into her again i guess i’d get mixed up with her again .
” “do you think i should ?
bugs laid him down gently .
“it’s wemedge , ” she shouted to the others .
“but walpole’s a better writer .
it was the general theory that since there were not many steel helmets these should be reserved for the shock
had missed .
just don ' t let him know i talked to you .
' i would sure as hell like to trade it in on a new one , the colonel thought .
” “because they are the representatives of tyranny and i hate their faces .
, feeling the cool wind of the night and smelling the good smell of africa , i was altogether happy
" i used to pay him a hundred pounds a year just to keep him quiet .
now i am afraid to make it go farther with that noise of death inside .
” his voice was not the same , and his mouth was very dry .
my inability to master the lanish spanguage .
do you know how to use the winchester ?
i wonder why i never thought about it .
our hill until our guide had heard them ; then cut up to the top of the hill , down
it might have turned out well .
she had rung and the door was unlatched .
johnson called to the waitress .
” “certainly .
he would not go down to his father’s office .
andré turned to me .
” then she sat down beside macomber again and looked away across the stream to where the lion lay ,
“i’ll take this with me , ” he said .
” “you’re crazy , littless .
' ' what was general eisenhower like ?
' ' but if i ever write anything about this it will just be landscape painting until i know something
bushes while we watched them and the light failed .
i am completely without luck .
in his room , alone , the matador who was ill lay face down on his bed with his mouth
” “why didn’t you give the little presents when i was over there ?
bill said he would be damned if he would leave his dinner .
he looked out of the window again , drank the coffee , and lit a cigarette .
i drank some water from one of our canvas bags , sat on a petrol tin and looked at the
" i killed him in self-defense , " the old man said aloud .
or a millionaire from the war and from after .
and that count .
there are two dining-rooms in the montoya .
we stopped and ate lunch at sestri .
i don ' t really want to .
jack is always calm in close and he doesn ' t waste any juice .
“god speed the parting guest , ” he said .
“dear , i don’t think , i really don’t think that any one would really do a thing like that
” “i get more than that for pic-ing .
still , some of them make money .
i ' m just talking through a sheet .
“i’ll take gin and schweppes quinine tonic water , ” i said .
" " is that san fermin ' s ?
on one , any one , anything to shatter that superior , simpering composure .
you know .
to the hotel .
" " everything we want ' s the dinner , eh ?
ten years later there was nothing of the mill left except the broken white limestone of its foundations showing through
the extremaduran said nothing .
” “i have never denounced anyone .
under the dining tent fly pop and i talked over what we had better do .
the other gear beside it .
i cut myself a slice of ham .
try and find something heavier than the wrench but i couldn’t find a thing ; not even a sponge hook
he put back the packed needles he had cut with his knife and made a small cut as far up
rim-rocked us on the hill .
, and slow up , and turn out to avoid running into two donkeys that were sleeping in the road
the sea was very dark and the light made prisms in the water .
“i’ll kill you , ” he said .
it was obvious it was not being aimed .
“well , jimmy , what do you make of that ?
i ' m a goner .
' ' you hit him , ' said pop .
” “not in our lifetime , ” bill said .
possibly from mencken .
true , too .
they can rot .
talents , or his talent , also told what we would have of the necessary .
oh , lord , may he hit one !
waterbuck standing , their heads up , peering while their nostrils searched the air , their ears spread wide to
and then she would slide down on the far side or he would lower himself down and take the rifle
" " well , " i said , " so long , soldier .
“we’ll pick the berries and get back to camp .
broiling .
” “sure , ” hogan says , “a letter only costs two cents .
” “to harry’s bar , ” the good lion said .
” doctor wilcox said .
' pop said nothing .
' ' repeat it .
one coming down over each breast .
thaw is counting on it .
if there is anything in the course you do not understand please ask questions .
our faces , just having shot the guinea fowl , having , in the last five days , failed on
brother ?
” “then they’ll fly .
“what time is it ?
the other riders joked him about his boils .
” “i’m awfully glad .
it ' d mean i was a faggot .
i liked it .
an irishman don ' t draw in new york like a jew or an italian but they always get a
it was his mother and he wanted to do it himself .
" " don ' t get sore .
how did you ever happen to know this fellow , anyway ?
legs under the tables , shaking the water from their belled caps , and spreading their red and purple jackets
he saw him sharp and clear and in the sky with the mountains behind him .
let ' s go .
just looking for you .
you can’t shut your hands .
' you know dos passos ?
“let’s not have any ordering , nor , ” turning to macomber , “any silliness .
“take it easy , the man says , ” the nigger went on .
going off fast like that he might be dead in a hundred yards .
“what’ll we drink to ?
my own are very tenacious .
i have re-classified him in my mind .
got a family .
the young indian pulled the boat way up on the beach .
" fruit , " she said .
the bus stopped in front of a posada and many of the passengers got down , and a lot of
' " he took a drink .
max .
" won ' t you have a kirsch with me ?
retana gave them to zurito .
” “what do you call yourself ‘walcott’ for ?
” “matador , ” she said , shutting the door .
“i have my duty here .
not as much as the merchant marine maybe .
” “yes , we ought to have .
" damned english swine come here and insult mike and try and spoil the fiesta .
” “my old bratchen .
seeing her , he spoke softly not to startle her .
" " what you say ?
' ' all right , ' the colonel said .
she won’t ever see no finer mattresses .
, floating and playing , and then swimming in to walk further along the beach .
loopholes running all along the face of each corral .
" the letter was at my place at the table , leaning against a coffee-cup .
" you can ' t blame him such a hell of a lot .
my old man was drinking more than i’d ever seen him , but he wasn’t riding at all now and
' never .
' with the clean feeling of dry shirt , fresh socks and a change of boots i sat on the
“by all means .
” she was a plump old woman with a lovely ruddy complexion and white hair .
” she said nothing and he could see her face in the light from the street lamp looking straight ahead
“did you have enough ?
” “with a scissors .
' ' how old are you ?
the referee grabbed jack and pushed him toward his corner .
here there were concentrations of shrimp and bait fish and sometimes schools of squid in the deepest holes and these
' get along to your table .
' the colonel looked up at the play of the light on the ceiling .
“gavis tooth paste .
' i thought it over and i thought we should not .
" " he is commanding the battalion .
' ' they scare me sick , ' i said .
kid lewis always had about three new dirty things jack couldn ' t do .
there were lights shining on the water and the iron framework of a bridge going by the window and my
tall waiter said .
that covered the weak chin , you never thought about--it was always the eyes .
" he asked , keeping his face out of the way .
real ducks .
“i’d hit you right over the head with this .
' come on , ' i said , and , m ' cola ahead , we started trailing up the
open country , down to cross the dry watercourse , and up and into the grateful shade of the trail
when he had the ground smooth , he spread his three blankets .
” “close to two hundred .
onto the dam .
i hope anyway , he thought .
' ' you mean she went away , from ambition , when you only were away from duty ?
for home .
” “that’s right , ” i said .
' bugs , ' i said to m ' cola in swahili , speaking with strong disapproval .
“i’m going down .
perhaps that wasn ' t true , though .
” “i’m afraid i don’t .
" " we ' ll watch him with the glasses , " i said .
' by the grace of god .
' did any one ever see what sort of horn he had ?
" i ' m going to take a little sleep , " he said to the adjutant .
you can keep the door locked .
grate .
“give me three hundred , retana .
the bulls are my best friends .
” “we really are .
that is not to kill about .
it was numbing cold .
” “not a thing , ” said the little man .
' but let ' s not be macabre .
” “he’s coming now , ” manuel said .
" where did you wash ?
nurses before the season opened .
' ' i ' ve seen them quite well costumed in brussels , ' the colonel said .
” “i am a poor idealist .
' be careful , ' the poler in the stern said .
' here , ' he said dismally and pointed at the broken islands of thick , green spiky cover .
" i know now .
“and i hate every foreigner alive .
just because i felt like it .
and his wife and robert wilson were standing by him .
were in that gulf .
but i ' ve tried .
and it was me they did not break on the rack that time because i had been polite to the
a side street .
” “keep them away from your head .
" " i go now for the sardines , " the boy said .
i don ' t think you ' ve ever seen it either .
or an americano and he always drank that instead of the blood of the hindu traders .
coming up from the south .
“i’m awful sure , ” nick said .
' ' all modern american literature comes from one book by mark twain called _huckleberry finn_ .
came from the muzzle , and the crawling , heavy , yellow bulk of the lion stiffened and the huge
what would you expect to see ?
by then we had passed the smacks with their fish cars anchored in front of cabanas and the skiffs anchored
in slow motion .
he must have seen it all up in the bridge .
hell , i knew him when he was a good man .
” “juma thinks he knows .
hair on his cropped head .
i listened , then blew the whistle twice and everybody faded back , red hauling the last kraut by one
' good , ' he said .
_num_ st soldier—i was surprised how he acted .
he looked at the different welts and ridges that had come before they had plastic surgery , and at the
coeducation maybe .
a man leaned over from the other side of the seat and asked in english : " you ' re
while the bull was facing away the gate was pulled up and a second bull came out into the corral
” “i don’t want to go , ” kate said .
a few weeks ago he had gone through fossalta and had gone out along the sunken road to find the
" " the more of a fool you are , " he said .
“is this man wemedge a nonswimmer ?
” he nodded his head in confirmation of his own statement .
made him slightly suspect afterwards in his own army , and had done his career no good , had a
that fellow shiras—” “you call him that fellow ?
“don’t be afraid , ” the major said .
' ' you beat him on oryx , ' pop said .
i was laying trying to rest like you said .
" " you ' ll go a long way , brother , " bill said to him in english .
" i hope to god he was , " peroxide said .
so i put the telegram in my pocket .
and we had seen a lot of country .
by the bombardment .
we are coming into my town , he thought .
" he has slowed much , " he said .
then he looked across the river to the rebuilt white house that had once been rubble , and he spat
" ay , " he said aloud .
“no thanks .
brother , that was some storm .
all of the times that had been able to make him feel cool and clear inside himself when he thought
he’d lost weight out at hogan’s .
" the waiters moved the people away .
what ' s the matter with you , anyway ?
manuel sat up and looked at him .
look how white they are .
anyway , the thing to do is live and not to die .
' you see how quickly you practise it ?
, had begged every one to kill him .
into a wineskin and there was a hot scalding rush above and around the sudden inner rigidity of steel and
“ay !
then they were off like marsh-birds , walking with the long strides of herons too , the colonel thought ,
" " can ' t do it .
" you just told me you had no money to pay me , " i said .
out at night and were back in the forest in the morning before it was light , or that they
' how are you , daughter ?
when it was supper-time i was too tired to go out .
your right , the entrance to the bar , the doorway on to the grand canal , and the entrance
you go down after him , said maera , he hates me .
he’s at the mines .
” “i wish you wouldn’t , ” nick said .
” “i just don’t want to be sent away .
the ribs of the second bird .
" " only the two bottles .
' ' i do not care .
" who ' s there ?
wheels .
“all right , if you want to go , ” jack says .
that was the buoyancy .
n .
brett did not look upset .
oh , well , it was only a black eye .
” manolita called down the table .
and a spear .
because he’s a rummy he’ll talk when he gets hot .
where things were pleasant .
i lay face down on the bed .
then finally they cut everything right to the road and piled the bark here and then pulled out .
“and i’m the cock that gets on it to crow .
wheeler ' s table .
they know where there is a big kudu bull and he has a man watching him now .
that’s right there was a little delay in getting them off .
it felt comfortable to be in a country where it is so simple to make people happy .
" he held the tiller under his arm and soaked both his hands in the water as the skiff drove
” “have you undressed ?
it would just stun it and nickie wanted to try it .
into the open lake , carrying with it everything that had made the mill a mill and hortons bay a
but i was more intelligent that he was .
" " we ' ll give him ten minutes , " max said .
manuel knocked with his knuckles on the desk .
he tried to remember how he had felt .
booby-trapped and others had been sabotaged .
at the house they said the boy had refused to let any one come into the room .
“what of it ?
“hey , bill , ” nick said , coming up the steps .
' he stopped .
" i told the boy i was a strange old man , " he said .
watching the door , the detective laid the revolver down on the floor and leaning over unlocked the handcuff from
i went up to the flat wondering what brett had done to the concierge .
“politics , ” frankie said .
it’s a thing i haven’t taken any interest in .
" " he ' s all right , " i said .
fifes and the drums coming .
we went out to the kitchen .
" " i love you now .
but maybe it was the heat .
colonel went on , ' i got a regiment because the commanding general relieved a boy that i had known
and i saw he looked ill .
” “naturally , ” his father had said , “with that pair of tusks .
“i was acolyte , ” the thin one said proudly .
“i can’t do it , ” para said .
more of a change than any loss of virginity .
bill looked at it .
“that other poor boob , ” said the brakeman .
” “are you in the university ?
” he had stopped the car and across the darkening swamp they could see the wood ibis crossing the sky
“memsahib’s gone to shoot , ” the boy said .
it is a lack .
' ' i agree , ' she said .
the house was rebuilt in the same place out of lumber now and painted white and from its porch you
' ' i wouldn ' t mind it if i was a colonel .
' " " no , " said my wife , " i suppose not .
but it makes me feel wonderful .
his back was bent with the weight of the line across it and he carried the fish in his right
the wind blew in the trees now and was cool as they lay in the shade .
and you claim you want to be a writer , too .
they’re as sound as juma’s .
he was the concierge .
“i know , ” manuel said .
i turned on the light again and read .
' ' you ' ll never know what it meant to see that car come into the firelight with those
to his waist and swung his hips away from the bull in a mediaverónica .
our civilization--is it inferior to older orders of things ?
” “no thanks , ” helena said .
" " do you mind if i come up and sit around the office ?
' ' for keeps and for always , ' the girl said .
but remember , it ' s for literature .
he started to eat the artichoke taking a leaf at a time , and dipping them , heavy side down
” “we hit a lot of water first .
at the bar a tall , very tall , man , with a ravaged face of great breeding , merry
" " i say , you are a lovely piece .
we’re different from the others .
” “oh .
and that river that the tartars crossed , raiding , and i was living in that russia again .
" we ' re made up of all sorts of things .
' ' you can hang her if you wish because she is why we cannot marry .
her , and she was telling him not to be a ruddy ass .
and the grey stone .
" " what rot !
there never was such a wonderful , lean , running built horse .
on the other hand , he was not angry at being beaten .
" " ' well , ' said olz , ' when she died i made the report to the commune
” “i’m sorry , nickie .
“i am from badajoz .
“you’ve got your speed back , ” his father said .
i’ve got my sweater .
we ate at a restaurant in a side street off the square .
boulevard , afraid to see it was not she , afraid to lose the feeling it gave him .
which he despised , dulled his ability and softened his will to work so that , finally , he did
he opened it and smelled it and it smelled very good .
it’s going to be murder .
” “tell her i don’t take bananas .
i ' m wide awake now , signor tenente .
don’t you ?
as soon as he’d gone out i beat it up in the stand with the new glasses my old man
they were only perceptible at first as the light is in the sky before the moon rises .
any of the others .
” “kiss me once more .
" " how big are they really ?
workmen put up the gate-posts that were to shut off the side streets when the bulls were released from the
" oh , fine , " jack said .
when the athletics were at bat i was praying right out loud : ‘oh , lord , direct their batting
it’s too late to go now .
" what ' s the matter , yes , all right .
" doctor wilcox had said nothing but he had bought the leather-bound guide that same day .
i wish too many things .
was a wonderful view .
, and it was over .
he had not even noticed the boy was awake .
he was desperate .
we knew where he was and , as we went slowly forward , parting the high grass , we saw
“come on back here , ” i said to eddy and i gave him a real drink .
you know how much we all liked him .
" " it ' s the sort of thing i don ' t like to see .
she poured out the three muddy looking drinks into three glasses .
this car .
' ' we are , ' my wife assured him .
i reached up my hand to m ' cola for more cartridges , shot again , carefully , and missed
i did not know how badly i must have looked myself until i noticed how many flies there were around
“yes , ” jack said .
between the tree trunks .
' i ' ve hunted a country just like this for deer .
' then she came into the room , shining in her youth and tall striding beauty and the carelessness the
” “take it easy , wesley , ” the man told him .
, the pain had stopped .
flared out in empty broken holes where the tusks had been chopped away .
got a part for him .
here it was , all going on right before me , and i did not even feel an impulse to
she sleeps as though she had not gone to sleep .
" you ' re tired inside .
” “there it goes again .
they slid out of sight as i lifted the sod and i dug carefully and got a good many .
" i think he ' ll live a long time .
” drinking together , with no pain now except the discomfort of lying in the one position , the boys
" it ' s all in the bill , " he said .
we have grouped seven previously unpublished works of fiction at the back of the book .
” he reached for the package under the nigger’s head and swung it over the side .
but he wanted to forget it .
" after breakfast bill and i were sitting warming in the sun on a bench out in front of the
we drove in to biarritz and left the car outside a very ritz place .
“i’ll be in for breakfast , ” george said .
it is a wonderful magazine , he thought , because it combines sexology and beautiful foods .
' that saves us time .
“pic him , manos , ” he said .
well-known pleasant smile , he felt death come again .
it was one of those lying down in the tall grass and the animal did look much bigger and the
" i should have thought any one in that family would be interesting .
it ' s a long time .
that ' s one of the things i don ' t know about fighting .
all bad winds had local names and bad writers always became literary about them .
we killed a number of typists and the screen the germans had left , as they always do , to
and love your girl .
i speak german and french and the dialects .
" what was it like , papa , when you were a little boy and used to hunt with the
the native village .
“you have to watch for stock on all these roads .
it made his stomach feel better .
he was alive and a dark green and completely unfriendly .
not the first cup .
, " walcott on a foul .
“i’ll give it to him , ” said the guard .
came over to it .
' ' will they stay there ?
“it ain’t any good if you haven’t got a watch .
' hey , karl , ' i yelled .
he was serious .
" there are a few who touch various instruments , " the big one said .
“they’re at our house , ” she said .
not exactly , ” nick said .
“listen , bright boy , ” he said from the kitchen to george .
” “i am simply tired , ” said baldy .
he ' s waiting to marry this lady .
because it had been different with them and they had done very different things to get their medals .
lips .
” he’d come up from deep down and missed it .
" he has it sideways in his mouth now and he is moving off with it .
" " i might have , " the man said .
i would like to fly very slowly at two hundred fathoms high and see the fish from above .
” “i am sure she would permit it when cayetano is able to hear it .
white with the sun on her in that cold air that it looked like tall buildings rising out of the
we picked up the shenzi ' s tracks and saw where he had gone on back to the road .
the concierge commenced to dial numbers .
chapter two molo waked me by pulling on the blanket in the morning and i was dressing , dressed ,
" i ' ll take some .
gate .
he was sitting there with his head in his hands looking at the fire .
then we might have fought them together .
” “this is three times he’s made trouble .
” “i seen him last sunday , didn’t i ?
from the time he had gotten down off the train and the baggage man had thrown his pack out of
he talked of his work as something altogether apart from himself .
not to-night .
" manuel asked him .
" make another turn .
' there is a pair of _pescecani_ from you know where .
he had been ordered to make the attack as a surprise with one brigade only , bringing everything up before
” “what will the tanks do now ?
" " it is my mother , " he said .
a pair of pin-tails came , suddenly , from nowhere , slanting down fast in a dive no aeroplane ever
” “was the man your daughter was in love with a swiss ?
mark and smuggled it out under a load of fresh pork so the infidel customs guards wouldn ' t check
there was nothing going on .
she’s making good money with the place .
i hung onto the dinghy and got my breath and then i climbed in and took a couple of breaths
and , going in over the horns , put the sword all the way into a little spot about as
" " dear brett .
he had forgotten now all about the training .
his eyes noted things and his body performed the necessary measures without thought .
” “when is a man grown-up ?
” “love is a dunghill , ” said harry .
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--you guys don ' t know what i ' m talking about .
“you do business him ?
the wind parted her hair in the back and blew it forward about her face .
the car , making it all but run over them .
we haven’t any problems .
the wind brought them all down , and don manuel orquito ' s face was sweaty in the light of
' on the last day if we don ' t get anything , i ' m going to shoot garrick
" " i ' ll take you in the car , " i said .
it goes along like that for three rounds more .
nick stood up , a little wind blowing on his body .
we’ll only use little fires .
i ' d kill him like this .
i put the bathrobe around him and he holds himself in with one hand under the bathrobe and goes across
" you seen this , walcott ?
” “hell , ” said john .
” “i don’t give a damn about the truck .
if it wasn’t for my husband i’d come with you .
“so long , ” jack said .
' ' all the better , ' i said .
" what are you looking at me that way for ?
“i was jealous of david’s and tom’s mother .
by that time cohn , who had been regarded purely as an angel , and whose name had appeared on
i left him the gun and two cartridges and they were all busy butchering in the dusk when we followed
come on , little bull !
and the colonel remembered one time when he had stood , commanding a platoon of assault troops , while it
” “have you got some ?
you ' re always drinking , my dear .
” just then the lion roared in a deep-chested moaning , suddenly guttural , ascending vibration that seemed to shake
he’s covered everywhere you can hurt him .
he ' s all by himself .
you never do , he told himself .
cohn laughed .
slant change in the water .
“i shall wet this one in the river .
i walked down the hall to cohn ' s room .
" " let ' s not talk about how i am , " nick said .
cold beer .
' shoot the rhino too .
well , good-bye , mister adams .
” it was true , too , a thing which surprised him greatly , especially when he found that it
“are you awake , jimmy ?
isn’t that the headquarters of the society ?
it must have been damned funny .
do get a good hat .
the one looks , says nothing , too angry now to shoot .
he said something to the man who was sculling but he couldn’t scull her backwards , so i took hold
i guess the best , probably .
the tour de france was the greatest sporting event in the world .
” peroxide said proudly .
the hot fried ham and eggs tasted wonderful .
i can ' t stop things .
else , and then i saw one .
" it ' s too steady .
' ' but don ' t you see .
” “no ring .
' at b ' wana , ' m ' cola said , and shook his head , ' at the
' breaking spells , he thought .
' m ' cola was not jealous of droopy .
maybe one of the other waiters will denounce him .
” “it is thy problem , ” i said .
this was difficult , and had to be done very fast , and the orders were from a general called
" " c ' est vrai , " fontan said .
the hot , black bull body touched his chest as it passed .
" i ' m not joking you .
' it ' s a cow .
say , i’m worried about you not sleeping though .
listened to the discourse , speech , or harangue and attempting , in the small way a lieutenant can attempt
" i wish i had the boy , " the old man said aloud .
later it looked as though all of the earth had erupted and the prisoners that we took shook as a
” “what did she say ?
" but he is circling .
when the bullets started to come by and the fiats right behind them and the bullets and the fiats .
the tanks were all coming back now and you could hardly hear yourself talk for the noise .
“there can be no idle hands in his kingdom .
he took all his pain and what was left of his strength and his long gone pride and he put
to kick us out of that creek .
who the hell do you eat off of with people working here in key west for the government for six
” when she had made it she said , “why don’t you let me hold it and give it to
and hollow inside from the now-finished danger of the attack .
“every one is afraid .
_ ' m ' cola whispered .
manuel drank a glass of water poured for him by one of retana’s deputies , who was acting as his
the fiesta absorbed even the biarritz english so that you did not see them unless you passed close to a
how long would it take ?
crashed in the reeds , and was gone .
don ' t you think she ' s beautiful ?
the doctor told me that the major’s wife , who was very young and whom he had not married until
he asked to see our fishing permits and i got them out .
we saw the plane go out , and about five-thirty i was all over feeling good and was getting plenty
” i asked frankie .
the sun was high and the patch of shade was very small .
they went on the seven o ' clock train .
she was absorbed in the professional details .
say , jackson , do you always suffer so much any time you go off a highway on to a
" we ' ll try the key once more , " he said .
” “that’s why i want to question him now .
' ' exactly , ' the colonel said .
” “what’s it like over the khud ?
“no , ” jack said , “i never liked to go to these wakes .
he was playing the victorious leader home from the chase now .
’ it was true too .
” roger lay back and listened to the noises that came up from the street below and read the papers
all i wanted was to live in it and have time to hunt .
" she had a jew named cohn , but he turned out badly .
” “this is all the virgin timber left around here .
" but she ' s much lighter now .
are modem paintings—and poetry—art ?
“put it right in , ” dick boulton shouted .
, daughter) blue s- _num_ , you know what an s- _num_ is , i hope , says , "
they said it was because there was so much ore in the ground or something about the mountains , but
" " that was down by viareggio , " guy said .
’ now isn’t that something ?
, ” said charley wyman .
the audience disliked the film thoroughly and were protesting by whistling and stamping their feet .
” “i’ll say you were , ” the guard said .
' listen , portrait , ' he said .
but this town of venice , with everybody being polite and having good manners , is as tough as cooke
it was good marsala .
” he was thinking of that when he wondered about the story and about the boy’s writing .
but he is used to punishment .
” we were fifty kilometers from the front but the adjutant worried about the fire in my kitchen .
the bull-fight critic joked him about the number of malagueño expressions he used .
‘my god , ’ i said , ‘they’re too tired all right to come , ’” madame fontan said .
there was not an empty seat except in the president ' s box .
he was not quite as big as the first bull .
" " it ' s hardly fair to romero .
now i’m afraid i’ll have to stop at arusha to refuel .
now why is cohn pitiful ?
he was shocked and really horrified at the way girls would become engaged to and marry men whom they must
his face was discolored and swollen .
so she evidently hadn’t been arrested .
' or deficient as an instrument , or in character .
and go to school .
" " and have you had a lovely evening ?
” “he’s got politics .
' ' we do not have great writers , ' i said .
it was just like water in your rubber boots when we go duck hunting except it was warm and thicker
he knew that this nausea would increase steadily , without there ever being the relief of sickness , until something
" the man sitting beside him shouted .
" they play and make jokes and love one another .
" " the worms .
he washed off the wound , it was between the collarbone and the neck , and sent me to get
" he ' ll never be frightened , " mike said .
i ' d rather see him shoot than any man i ever knew .
“will you have some breakfast ?
their fist and held it and shook it and pulled it and held it again , while they looked you
and _you_ should never be stupid .
you ought to watch both of them if you’re going to see things .
" ski-heil !
“but , yes , ” said the porter .
" " at the berlitz school , sir .
' ' jesus , ' said the _gran maestro_ .
i asked her .
time , and no feeling more true than finding the gate of the louvre being closed , nor of looking
” “good , ” said johnny , smiling happily .
_crudo , bleu_ , or just make it very rare .
i don ' t want to think about it .
i was saving it to drink with you .
i’m going to sleep .
" " what was my grandfather like ?
“they will , ” said maria .
until five o ' clock we did not see anything .
' there are some things that a person cannot do .
but coming in like a death ' s head when we had been clowning made me behave badly again and
' ' i had .
he wanted the man .
with good dice .
“i’m terribly sorry i brought you along , nickie , ” said his father , all his post-operative exhilaration gone
else ?
” cause i thought maybe regoli had bumped him or something and he just looked at regoli and said ,
” he called .
” “why are not all the opiums of the people good ?
of the gap and headed toward us .
" get to hell away from me .
the boss of the horns covers any sort of a brain shot .
put it on the bill .
here it came .
the matadors bowed , holding their hats on , before the president ' s box , and then came over
i said to him : ' mr .
wing , folding the wing carefully over it , and sat there stroking and smoothing his breast feathers while he
two of the station porters sat drinking new wine at the table under the clock .
newspaper correspondents .
he loved his sister very much and she loved him too much .
only just don’t call me blackie .
” “think anybody is jealous of us now ?
' i never saw his horns .
" " should i ?
he put on the lights a little later and soon they cut far ahead into the dark and the two
” we moved up and sat in the seat directly opposite them .
" you can ' t just quit at your age and take to pumping yourself full of that stuff just
over there .
inside on a wooden bunk lay a young indian woman .
he was going to be an engineer .
” “it’s only to eat and drink in .
“pull the cord , ” i called to the second outfit and as the cord took up its slack and
“promptly at seven .
and this .
he was a poet with an income of nearly ten thousand dollars a year .
you won ' t !
not in the dark , and cut it away and hook up the two reserve coils .
maybe he will , he thought , and took two of the tablets and a swallow of gin and looked
there’s one thing about you , daughter , he thought .
” then she came up to him and said , “come on .
” “and we can be happy for always can’t we ?
“he likes it .
robert harris .
" i ' m like that all through .
“mister campbell , ” mr .
' ' who had florence and rome ?
the hell with that too .
it was a white boat with a buff painted house and a windshield .
" " somebody named frances .
“awfully salty but awfully good , ” she said .
, the blood was still bright on the stones and on the fallen leaves and grass and the hills were
the mills were by the railroad and lumber was piled high along the tracks and there was the smell of
' nor is there any woman of memory .
i want to go on and on and on .
she sees you the way you are now and you are a good guy as of the last few weeks
” she went on over the crest of the hill .
if you ' ve got one down be careful how you walk up to him .
" " it is very good .
to me it is more real than anything .
going down to the coast and seeing the old places .
oh , jake !
” so they played cribbage for about half an hour and jack won a dollar and a half off him
' ' we secured the bridge and established a bridgehead on the other side of the river and we threw
coming along the road on a bicycle , getting off to push the machine when the surface of the road
be tragic .
“here it is , ” said george .
he hung around brett and just looked at her .
i had ever been in my life .
the chafing crushed it and he smelled it as he walked .
kate put her lips to nick’s ear .
after romero had killed his first bull montoya caught my eye and nodded his head .
nick walked around the shallow shelf near the swamp shore until he came out on the shallow bed of the
” carl asked .
dear jesus please get me out .
he pointed , crouched down , and as we crawled up to him he handed me the glasses .
it is good half an hour down .
how’s the weather .
he could have moved ahead much faster than juma and his father but when he started to tire they were
weren’t you ever in despair ?
' but don ' t let me start on it .
“all nonsense .
the three of them , with several of elliot’s friends who called him hubie , went down to the château
it was pork that wasn’t cooked !
' they ' re beautiful .
' domenico , ' he said .
" that son of a bitch !
' we spooked one , ' i reported .
only it wasn’t wet because they had been there since before the rain started .
then to the grand maestro , who had reappeared , having given his orders , the colonel said , '
the coming things oppressed him , though .
" " i don ' t think i dreamt .
" " a mistake , " he said , and changed the twenty-five to fifty .
" his father picked up the knife to cut the pie .
“ain’t he a bright boy , max ?
” on the far bank of the stream macomber could see , above the trees , vultures circling and plummeting
” “i never carry a gun .
all sit around about two or three hours in front of some drink like a vermouth and seltz and they
go out to the reef , captain willie adams was thinking .
he put it on the palm of his left hand .
i ' m sick of seeing it unoccupied .
' go ahead and comb your hair .
the doctor came up to the machine where i was sitting and said : " what did you like best
” “it’s very exciting , ” she said .
she wasn ' t strong to climb .
, the shock it was to find that these dead were women rather than men .
all night long , every one along the corridor heard the russian .
" pretty soon the telephone rang and they said the taxi was waiting .
“have a scene ?
' they haven ' t enough stuff left even for a fire-fight .
the hell with him .
" " who was it with her ?
the whore laughed again and shook all over .
the reason is that until he fell in love with brett , i never heard him make one remark that
" come on , let ' s get out of here , " bill said .
wood of the bows where the ship lay anchored with the evening off-shore breeze and he waited to see if
water and raising and dipping her head , splashed water on to her back .
” “lorna doone isn’t .
sing , and the kid sculling .
“they’re using our guns .
" " we ' re different , " the old man said .
he had the big colt automatic that had belonged to three other men that i had known of , and
" i ' ll finish the cigarette .
they were sitting at the table .
there was the ninth , which was a better division than we were .
then when i got handling stuff and went party-boating and broke out this swordfishing in cuba i used to see
' i ' ve spent all my time praying for you .
awake .
while he noticed these things he did not lose sight of the bull ' s feet .
we cross this river and by now it was getting to be afternoon and we passed many people on the
" " oh , hell !
he was lonesome for kibo and thinking of how juma killing the elephant’s friend had turned him against juma and
" " he is .
the curtains were buttoned all down the aisle and everybody seemed to be still asleep .
this was the one karl had picked , too .
“what does fourteen to nothing mean ?
as soon as he got it right he was going to send it to his father .
' ' you ' re a torcello boy .
very hot now , we walked across a meadow where the grass was knee high and truly swarming with long
cohn made some remark about it being a very good example of something or other , i forget what .
“i’m not mrs .
” “yes , ” said hogan .
so was paris , and so were key west , florida , in the cool months ; the ranch ,
” “is the owner a fisherman ?
" there is no wine .
for a moment in action in the ardennes and they were pursuing .
don ' t lie to me , please , darling , when we have so little time .
i thought it looked like a good place to go , but knew they would all be furious in there
" jack asks .
finally , after organization had been established , labour troops hauled them out at night and buried them close to
then he went down very slowly .
“you’re awfully sweet to me , ” he said to the guard .
we went out to the car .
but she did not hear him for the beating of her heart .
it was dated san sebastian , sunday : dear jake , we got here friday , brett passed out on
" " no , " the major said .
“it’s not a fête .
" nickie can have prudence , " joe garner said .
it would be today until it was tonight and tomorrow would be today again .
water and well in toward the shore , spread out across the current .
” “i can give you ham and eggs , bacon and eggs , liver—” “i’ll take ham and eggs ,
the hell with these sexual symbols .
there ' s no more privacy in the army than in a professional ---- .
it sounds horrible .
learn to take good care of her in every way i can .
corrals .
to the barrera and handed over the sword and muleta .
' ' mustn ' t ever let him realize what a shot that was or he ' ll get unbearable
' i hope he has a good steak for you .
carefully and spat on it for good luck .
” asked the doctor , his face very red but his love for information still unappeased .
no matter what you do with it .
we hunted all over hell .
m ' cola came carrying his knife and pop ' s big glasses .
the train stopped , the conductor and the brakeman got down and my father said good-bye to fred cuthbert who
to obtain a copy of _the young doctor ' s friend and guide_ and use it , doctor wilcox .
you don ' t have to defend .
a crowd of young men , some in jerseys and some in their shirt-sleeves , got out .
this was a great day , after all .
he was very pleasant and went with us twice to the irati river .
head , he had unleashed his effort and forced the hand of the negro down and down until it rested
the president bowed and romero , running to get ahead of the crowd , came toward us .
" tiburon , " the waiter said , " eshark .
“listen the whole thing is just as crazy as a bedbug .
it slid the country all sideways if you looked straight at anything and you had to just let it go
let the current take the line and the baited hook under the bank .
“there are no russians in extremadura , and there are no extremadurans in russia .
certainly , she said .
“you look like you need it .
unaltering , insuperable , the best .
' " ' i must know , ' the priest said .
” “all right , ” nick said .
one of them said , and they went out to the car .
” the chef wiped his lips .
he had felt sorry for his mother and she had made him lie .
" " well , i care about you .
she called to some one in the house and three girls came to the window and stared .
" hello , george , " he said .
” he was steering to the westward now to go in to lay up for the day in the mangroves
after all the burst of shooting there was a pause and then a single shot .
how much is that in pounds ?
“he was practically floating around .
give my love to everyone .
the other whores didn ' t smile .
” the prisoner asked .
" why should the people be operated on without an anæsthetic ?
you don ' t have to talk to them .
it was a hell of a thing all right .
” “i know , ” said suzy .
, ” said jim , and downed his liquor .
he ' s wiped out that damned cohn .
watching her .
have seen the rebecca .
to eat .
" " i don ' t like to substitute , " manuel said .
' ' we turn here .
" so , " said the doctor .
arriba !
" he didn ' t want to drink with me , after he knew about his wife , " said
” manuel asked retana’s man .
what the hell was it anyway ?
" unlike all other forms of lutte or combat the conditions are that the winner shall take nothing ; neither
" he is tiring or he is resting , " the old man said .
he did not do so badly in the night , though , and he has only cramped once .
” he called , winking at the young gentleman , “come up here and walk with us .
the waitress blushed .
a waiter came with a cloth and picked up the glasses and mopped off the table .
“they can’t understand the english language , anyway .
" i know , " manuel said .
" yes , " jack said .
" " it ' s from them , " i said .
there was no one to help him so he pulled the boat up as far as he could .
four holes close together in the bone around the earhole .
several times and picked up the pistol in his rubber gloves .
copper wire circles and many wire circles on her arms and ankles .
" the girl came in with the coffee and buttered toast .
” “towards barcelona , ” i told him .
' he ' ll never own you .
" " i slept like a log .
“if you make a scene i’ll leave you , darling , ” margot said quietly .
can you blame them ?
“is he , al ?
" what class of pain do you have ?
the next day we hunted oryx in the dried-up dustiness of the rift valley and finally found a herd way
' cheese , ' she said .
each time a shell bursts in a building it makes a great cloud of brick and plaster dust and when
it all looked too deep to wade and the bottom was soft but finally i found a heavily worn hippo
top saucer of the pile .
mention in madrid , valencia , barcelona , and other political centers .
" " no , but i ' ve seen him .
" " a fall off a horse .
then come to the old man ' s shack as he had come each morning .
ah , that’s intelligent .
it was a library book--_frank on a gunboat_ .
i suppose you start to destroy it for fear you will lose it , or that it will take too
you get precious .
the place money .
she says for you to search the place if you want to and then go .
crawled down in bed again .
how can i blame others when i am that stupid ?
” “are you too cold ?
“he’s gone , ” johnson said .
" " he was telling me about the bulls coming in to-night .
" " it was a very lovely place , " said my wife .
' ' oh please not talk .
" they were skunks .
couldn’t we go down it in a canoe some time ?
for one who had aficion he could forgive anything .
” “want to hunt tomorrow ?
one of my friends , an extremely underfed-looking painter , who was obviously to madame duzinell neither well brought up
the only difference was that now it was hotter at night , the road in was hub-deep in dust ,
he was a natural welter-weight and he ' d never gotten fat .
the end to the heavy fly line .
henry ' s had been made over from a saloon into a lunch-counter .
some more dishes and then came out again they would be out of sight beyond the point .
liver .
" we started up the road into the woods .
are you thirsty ?
" you ought to write a book on wines , count , " i said .
“and get out of here fast .
” “i’d worry about you , ” nick adams told her .
lot to cohn .
the wind blew their tails .
' ' they aren ' t worth explaining , ' the colonel said .
that’s really funny .
” d .
we went into the restaurant , passed madame lavigne at the desk and into a little room .
the grass was wet and cold as he knelt on the bank and dipped the canvas bucket into the stream
nonsense .
creases did not show so much when the old man was asleep and his head fallen forward .
“what do you say about a drink , eddy ?
all angleworms in a bottle , trying to derive knowledge and nourishment from their own contact and from the bottle
" he stood up and put his hand on the small of his back .
found the blind and everything .
there had been a great deal of hysteria .
” “where did you read that ?
, would call for pictorial representation of their plight but , more likely , would , if they were articulate
manuel noticed the way the banderillos hung down on his left shoulder and the steady sheen of blood from zurito
it was still strange and no one spoke at all but it was their country now , not his nor
they would have blown us out of water but we would have blown the town simply to hell .
nor did i use crickets , because of the way they acted about the hook .
the rhino in the sticking place .
' ' colonel cantwell .
“i didn’t mean to foul you .
" i was just kidding , man , " retana ' s man said .
had a nigger in it .
' that is the logical supposition .
” “oh , that’s quite beside the point .
you have to run in water to your knees to get in range of the last cripple and you slip
look at that !
nun , and the radio fathers and sons part ii short stories published in books or magazines subsequent to “the
yuh !
then we had to turn to the right and climb out of the putting-green smoothness of the valley into a
i bring you small things from the px and i buy you drinks and meals .
if i can tell you one thing , renata , about fighting .
” no , thank you , ” nick said .
” “you always thought about things .
" the clerk says .
” “what are your politics ?
he took her away from a british gunner subaltern after a row .
simply perfect .
“i came this way on account of the dogs , ” nick said .
but don’t think they don’t take punishment .
but it is truer than the things that you will read in generals ' memoirs .
" and i killed him well .
" don ' t you think it is very significant ?
but i will see that you go where you wish to go and i will go with you if you
' ' then i ' ll do that on monday .
” “i don’t know now .
on the boulevard raspail , with the lights of montparnasse in sight , brett said : " would you mind
over his shoulder and then went back to the stream and dropped the entrails in and tossed some bright pieces
” nick gave her the clothes .
“that’s where he’s going damn quick , ” retana’s man said .
due to the exigencies of the gritti having been built as a palace , there had been no site for
“i did not like it either , ” he said .
" mussolini has abolished the brothels .
he was three years older than paco and was very cynical and bitter .
" " that ' s true , " the porter confirmed .
' it isn ' t too expensive ?
” nick asked , holding up the glass .
when he was dramatizing a stalk , and , just then , we put up another flock of guineas .
then he heard his wife’s voice from the darkened room .
maybe he’s just pleased .
he watched charo watch for the sun to set with that blank look on his face that it put on
" to give it weight in the wind .
they ' ve picked walcott up and they ' re working on him .
it ' s important because it got into the newspapers .
“but don’t you kill him .
i no see him four weeks now .
sleep .
" " i don ' t know , " cohn said .
i would take it just as well from you , conscience , if you did not try to scare me
” “all indians wear the same kind of pants .
' thank you very much , _gran maestro_ .
” we lay in the grass and it smelled of true summer and the flies , the ordinary flies and
" " stop it , " i said to guy .
that’s right .
it was too late at night for conversation .
hogan’s .
the red door of the toril swung back and for a moment zurito looked into the empty passageway far across
his shoulder .
figures of course mean nothing to civilians .
i hope you are correct .
" he asked the gypsy .
but from here they could not see it .
” “oh , the lion , ” margot said .
" we finished the meal and the wine .
you should never have killed this italian .
_num_ d soldier—why didn’t he come down off the cross ?
but it yellowed the leaves of the alamo trees and blew dust and stripped leaves over the swimming pool .
jack was lying asleep on the bed .
i mean using the word sentence as a jail sentence .
on his bare feet to the other side of the door .
they ' ve named themselves enough in their memoirs .
if we _are_ going i ' ll be just as glad to rest my feet .
there were two beds separated by a monastic partition .
' i ' d tell him what i ' d do if i were shifted , or ascended , into
now , good day , for i must take a walk for the good of my liver , or something
use your own judgment .
he’d find them and then bring the men up to them .
” “we were mean to lie to that waitress .
he reached for another orange .
“that’s one thing , ” jack says .
you lost money in the game ?
there were still too many people .
" " oh , yes , i am .
a replacement .
then they went into the woods and followed a trail that led to the logging road that ran back into
” “he ships chinamen , ” frankie said .
the shack was made of the tough bud-shields of the royal palm which are called guano and in it there
then they still went slowly until the great lantern that was on the right of the entrance to the grand
it ' s wilson-harris .
he had gone to a place to dance with her afterward , she danced badly , and left her for
' and you , my colonel ?
“you got a good hand , kid , ” manuel complimented him .
" " i ' m afraid i don ' t .
” “breeze right off the gulf of mexico , ” the man said .
" i ' ve always loved birds , " the american lady said .
he was the best-looking boy i have ever seen .
" " about how long will it be before i die ?
the locusts came and ate your crops and the monsoon failed , and the rains did not come , and
i found my swimming-suit , wrapped it with a comb in a towel , and went down-stairs and walked up
i found a couple of pieces of what i wanted—iron from the old coaling dock at tortugas—and i took some
you could not see the tops of the mountains .
suddenly he saw him stop ; he was quite still .
" * * * * * [ _num_ ] this story was published in a rather technical book called _death
to our left there were steep , rounded , wooded hills , with outcroppings of limestone rock that ran ,
who sits down except men and women in change of life hotels ?
" you ' re not villalta , " retana said .
that ' s all we do , isn ' t it--look at things and try new drinks ?
” “i love that girl , ” said george .
“this course rides itself .
“watch him , ” retana’s man said .
finally droopy found where he had gone up the other side and on into the hills .
” “we’ll clean up here and i’ll find a place to cache the shells and we’ll make a trip for
it rained metal and other things .
as it is in nada .
' then he said , ' _gran maestro_ .
" you drank some liquor .
from the apartment you could only see the wood and coal man’s place .
" " cut it out about me .
he didn ' t have much legs .
cabin and hung them up in their cases from the top of the house where we hung the rods usually
we got up out of the blind and went over to look in the dust of the lick for tracks
” “he is crazy , ” another soldier said .
" that ' s what i want to be .
[the wine-seller looks up expectantly .
" " say , " said bill , " do you know that gang of pilgrim fathers have cornered the
then slid an egg on top of it .
” “roger , do you still love me ?
had been a rotter at college and a very unpleasant incident had resulted .
' there we camp , ' garrick announced pompously .
“just because you say i wouldn’t have doesn’t prove anything .
“look , an english girl last night told me i shouldn’t write about it .
we went to your room but it was locked .
green , the stream as clear and fast flowing , and the camp as fine as when we had first
the white road , and then up a side road that went up through the hills past many small farms
“must make him stop that racket , ” wilson said .
probably a better town to live in than this one .
of the wall , looked up and down the street .
otherwise everyone would have wanted it to go to a finish .
aren ' t you , robert ?
" " no , " the boy said .
what if it is forbidden to fish ?
the sun was hot now although the breeze was rising gently .
she saw how close romero always worked to the bull , and i pointed out to her the tricks the
fathers and sons there had been a sign to detour in the centre of the main street of this town
" she asked guy .
' ' cola , ' i said .
only with the anti-tank now they’re so damn vulnerable .
” “i’m going to fix you up good , ” the man said .
all i wanted to know was how to live in it .
his mother went out of the room and he could hear her frying something downstairs while he washed , shaved
' ' then you think of other people ?
' produce a few smells or something from your off-stage kitchen , even if the wind is against us .
' chapter viii the colonel said nothing and preceded the boy down the corridor .
people from the academy were killed and there are statistics to prove it .
“hadn’t you ought to put your hat on even under the canvas at noon ?
“hazel and ethel , ” alice said .
belmonte had ever been able to give , felt defrauded and cheated , and belmonte ' s jaw came further
and ditches , too , he thought .
“both the same , ” he said in that same comic lilt .
there were three tins of christmas special mincemeat , three tins of salmon , and three of mixed fruit ,
” the man was intent on his steering .
" i was afraid of just that all night , " she said .
he’s a socker .
the man who had winked smiled .
manuel shook his head .
it came as suddenly as a person blushes , it felt like prickly heat , and it was gone as
" the boy asked .
but i had given him the shortest cut to having delgado arrested in one of those excesses of impartiality ,
" what ' s holding it up ?
“no , ” retana waved his hand , “i never smoke .
these insects at one time played a very important part in my life .
' seven cows .
“with fear there is thirst , always .
do it a day at a time and keep each day’s promises to her and to yourself .
” and grabbed his arm and they were in the car again , macomber and wilson hanging on the sides
now definitely and finally salao , which is the worst form of unlucky , and the boy had gone at
forgive me , maria .
” “ride you , doctor , on the day , the very anniversary , of our saviour’s birth ?
they were circling it and driving it .
it ' s perfectly all right for you to look .
' ' you don ' t like to carry a sword , do you ?
they were well dressed , he said .
they were as old as erosions in a fishless desert .
don ' t think of renata because it won ' t do you any good , boy .
” “why don’t you try behaving ?
cut up and butchered .
as skilfully as a wrestler breaking a hold and said , now angry , “these are the hungry people .
sing bit me .
’ “i’m brown under the water .
take it unframed with you and we ' ll choose a good frame next week .
but at the bar it was pleasant and the place had been nice until blindy had come in .
" " but it does have nice people in it .
feels and there was no other way that he could touch her face except that way .
the wife and the dog .
i was drunker than i ever remembered having been .
c ' est comme les churches .
hemingway apparently discarded these chapters when he changed the direction of the novel as he worked on it .
' ' very sound fellow , ' said pop .
' ' you want to knuckle down on your swahili then .
enrique picked it up .
all the rest of it was quite clear , including the responsibilities .
can ' t you see jake and i want to talk ?
he wants to pinch you .
the army is the biggest business , at that moment , in the world .
" den i think a tabul for two will be enuff .
he put the apple butter jar back in the pack and cut bread for two sandwiches .
' ' i ' ll find him for you .
took a big pinch of ashes from the pouch in his pocket and tossed it in the air .
there was no need of that .
really spain .
” “sure , ” said george .
' ' i ' ve hunted them hard , pop .
" that ' s one of those things you never know at the time .
' ' thousands , ' i said .
i can still see portofino cape behind it .
the sandy loam , feeling our way between trees and under branches , back to the road .
his hands lay on the blankets .
i know when i ' m not wanted .
they were all three madrileños , like hernandez , boys about nineteen .
nick went over to the pack and found , with his fingers , a long nail in a paper sack
there is a picture which shows him on the rhine with two german girls and another corporal .
' he ' s shootable .
” “i have talent as a writer , ” said baldy .
the guides claimed they had seen another bull but karl had thought it was kongoni , or that they said
“hello , butstein , ” he said .
' the wanderobo-masai was nodding excitedly .
abdullah , on the black skin of his leg with a sharp twig .
“good-bye , lake , ” littless said .
on the black sweater that was his fatherland .
the only natural death i’ve ever seen , outside of loss of blood , which isn’t bad , was death
now will we be jolly ?
the biggest one .
three of them flew up when the train went by and circled off over the woods but the rest kept
there was only one favorable sign .
“it’s strange the way it carries .
to the springhouse .
' ' how do you say sable ?
' ' if you ever want to quit a beat-up character like me that guy could give you ground support
” outside it was getting dark .
” “i don’t think you ought to come , littless .
“you carry anything ?
" pipe down !
i should have asked you but i knew it was something we had to do so i did it for
olz looked back at the priest .
or not was being forced into that most exciting perversion of life ; the necessity of accomplishing something in less
“that of red lodge is the best , ” said the big one .
that’s dirty too , he thought .
d .
” “much .
he had not consciously noticed it .
we walked across the fields on the sandy path .
” “get a good sleep , ” he said and closed the suitcase and put it back under the berth
have you got any more by walpole ?
” “you made plenty of money .
“what the hell’s he sleeping in the daytime for ?
now i will pay attention to my work and then i must eat the tuna so that i will not
" mike said .
" the man called " listen " through the curtain .
in a year you kill twenty .
campbell is an undischarged bankrupt .
never saw it .
they cleared the tables and carried the bottles into the kitchen .
quand j ' étais petite ma mère m ' a dit , ' vous mangez comme les polacks .
if it isn’t enjoyable , why do it ?
” she went away and mr .
" give him ten francs .
was drunk .
little sidestep each time as he transferred the bull ' s charge from his own body to the flannel .
" " i wish i was twelve now .
discolouring with the red of the blood from his heart .
you don ' t want to mix emotions up with a wine like that .
white-hot , clanging roar we have lived with .
“i’m really not afraid of them now .
” “plenty .
" andré asked .
' ' you ' d have to take two more .
he could not talk to the fish anymore because the fish had been ruined too badly .
it showed a balance of $ _num_ .
short stories have french settings .
colonel said to himself , ' i ' d better quit window gazing along this street and make that next
on this afternoon it was snowing and inside an automobile dealer’s show window , lighted against the early dark ,
into them and running then themselves and he and the british observer had run too until his lungs ached and
" do you still love me , jake ?
in shooting quail you must not get between them and their habitual cover , once the dogs have found them
“they’re pretty funny , ” zurito said .
we went through the forest and the road came out and turned along a rise of land , and out
' get me a reading on who ' s there so we don ' t waste time .
" oh , yes , " i said .
it was located except he thought it was in the opposite direction from antoine’s , on an east and west
then the door revolved and in came the flit gun man .
just touched their toes and ankles .
” just then two men in leather coats , one short and stocky , the other of medium height ,
i’ve got to get some groceries .
colonel tasted it there was the half smoky , black pepper-corned , true flavour of the meat from the hogs
" well , no , " said krum .
” “we’ll drive about another drink more , ” he said .
“probably we wouldn’t even be going fishing tomorrow , ” bill said .
" montoya asked .
the horse-chestnut trees in the luxembourg gardens were in bloom .
“didn’t you know he was a nigger ?
inside the lit salon compartment the porter had pulled down the three beds from inside the wall and prepared them
we did not have anything to do with it .
best spaniards ; the thing that used to be the most clear distinction of nobility when there was nobility .
romero did not look up at us .
menu .
he winked at the coffee-boy as he poured out the brandy into the little glass beside manuel’s coffee .
not in the open glades , not in the fields where the bush thinned , not on the green hillsides
who speaks ?
” when she talked english the maid’s face tightened .
” ahead they could see the dark of the rising line of hills beyond the road .
well across all the high , rolling country and he and his friend were glassing it as carefully as though
” “then you must not say it .
showed her yellow card and demanded the patronne ' s daughter ' s too .
the man would look at it and shake his head .
harry , why don’t you carry me ?
you couldn ' t hear on account of the crowd .
“i know you will .
" " go get some wine , " fontan said .
you remember that old man from the village ?
and i don ' t know now if any man will ever want to marry me .
lavigne ' s was closed tight , and they were stacking the tables outside the closerie des lilas .
silly story of some man seeing the same bull every morning in the same place and never getting up on
" he laughed .
walcott clipped him with a left-hook and jack went down .
but it looks to me like these madonnas , that i really saw plenty of , sir , it looks
try and take it sometime .
it ain’t ready yet , but he drank a little bit , and this morning he put a little bit
' ' don ' t you ever dream about me ?
they did not want the bull killed yet , they did not want it to be over .
it was cold and white and early morning .
i got a chance to .
they looked at each other .
they were all men eating in the restaurant .
she ' s good , he thought .
" " it probably was bad .
were revolving a searchlight in the dark .
" i ' m never going to die .
" you better watch out to keep prudie , nick .
there they were drinking , getting ready for the fiesta .
now , in chicote’s it was so crowded that you had to make room with your elbows to get your
” “clearly , ” said the smallest one , “and costs more too .
“a mockingbird in a cage .
cohn was never drunk .
i will take the things back to the terrace .
the photographs were dedicated to juanito montoya or to his sister .
" come on hand .
i ' d rather not love anyone , the colonel thought .
" you are not sore , are you , jake ?
' don ' t you want to eat , b ' wana ?
” “is that all ?
they can bury them any time as far as i’m concerned and it would be much better for you .
' ' but he beat general rommel .
know the secret of his success ?
i laid them out , side by side , all their heads pointing the same way , and looked at
” “you don’t need to talk spanish , ” the interpreter said .
into the lee of the stone wall of the stables of the old montana barracks .
he is too concentrated .
“let’s get drunk .
et mon fils il est marié avec une américaine , et tout le temps il a mangé les beans en
' ' in nineteen-eighteen .
one was lying dead from the first shot , and it seemed of no importance beside the miracle of this
there , standing with the hotel runners , was robert cohn .
” “it’s a very old place , ” nick said .
“i guess that’s all .
' go on .
” that night i had dinner at fontan’s .
' he asked p .
i felt wonderful .
macomber shot again , aiming carefully , and down he came , onto his knees .
pushed him away .
' the boatman did not answer .
i told a medical chap about it and he told me it was impossible .
” “we stayed at the trois couronnes , ” said my wife .
' ' it is indeed , ' the colonel said .
the second boy when he came in .
we were at the top of the last range above spezia and the sea .
' listen , portrait , ' he said and , saying it , knew that now , as long as
” we went out .
but in that air i breathe is the smoke from the explosion and that make me sick for long time
” “that’s the sort of name vou’d have , ” the cook said .
“you her father ?
he was a fine fish all right .
" look , " he said .
whacking him on the legs with rods and all , in a procession , trying to get him toward the
” nick had killed eddie gilby , then pardoned him his life , and he was a man now .
hook for bait .
it’s overdue now .
“ever interfere with a cook ?
" we kissed good night and brett shivered .
but don ' t make jokes in spanish at this hour .
“write about something that you know .
“but you lack all ideology .
“hello , danny , ” morgan says and shakes hands .
we’ll drink it inside .
saying , ' damu !
” the little prisoner winked at me .
you ' re not a gangster .
' ' to-night if you wish it .
” “everything we want’s the dinner , eh ?
something .
" the first bull was belmonte ' s .
" they ' re friends of his , " john said .
” “petoskey .
" fontan asked me .
" " absolutely , " i said .
' chapter i they started two hours before daylight , and at first , it was not necessary to break
sometimes it dipped down but rose again steeply .
isn ' t she a lovely piece ?
' go ahead and draw .
i cut the switch and killed the motor .
then the big one got up and stood broadside with head turned toward us as garrick came up whispering ,
he ' s got a heavy beam and a big spread .
” “that’s your share , ” i told him .
_ _num_ d soldier_--well , i couldn ' t feel any worse .
b ' wana simba trains ' em , pal .
' you ' re also very beautiful and lovely and i love you .
to you—and only because i need not see you , can i confide in you even .
” “what did he want to kill himself for ?
“there’s nothing wrong with me .
he ' s been a member for a great many years .
“that’s truly what he said .
" doc fischer asked .
” his father sat watching nick eat the pie .
" well , bright boy , " max said , looking into the mirror , " why don ' t
it ' s _my_ mother .
there is only the major secret that you must know .
' ' let ' s get going , ' i said without moving .
“i just don’t want fights .
it was our first lion and we were very ignorant and this was not what we had paid to see
' ' it ' s rare , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
not at the frame .
“amounts to nothing .
my father took a suitcase out from under my berth , opened it on the bed , took out his
the air was fine with the window open and in a little while i was hungry .
where should we dine ?
“you won’t stay ?
“i’m coming , ” she said .
protruding from the boxes , the watercooling can empty and on its side , the breech block gone , the
round .
; as he had thought of nothing so many times in so many places .
" does cohn look bored ?
and i loved to sit there with my old man .
' aren ' t we ever going to eat ?
why didn ' t you ever tell us you could shoot ?
” the broth was too hot .
the gong rang and jack turned quick and went out .
m ' cola had seen the rusty bore .
' he paused .
everyone .
' do you think those low roads will be good with this big car , sir ?
we heard him grunt .
for the first three hours he was fresher than they were and he asked juma for the .
but look at them come now .
" " do you remember the panorama of the sahara desert ?
come on , galanos .
one the second and two the third .
” “who cut him down ?
planet .
” “how much more have you got on that camera ?
' ' on the dead angle of any shell-pocked slope if they would graze cattle over me in the summer
' ' for nothing , ' the colonel said .
” “i’ll bet pa wouldn’t ever have had a squaw for a girl .
luck is a thing that comes in many forms and who can recognize her ?
blackwater .
' ' i understand , ' the colonel said .
' writer .
at the general store and post office evans hitched the team at the rack and he and the down-state man
he looked up the tracks but could not see the train .
” i asked guy .
_ _num_ d soldier_--listen , i seen a lot of them--here and plenty of other places .
" " saturday .
" " i didn ' t know who they were , " i said .
' over there , ' waving at the dark , and i could not make out the story .
' are there any calls for me ?
i walked along the road , not looking toward the game , trying to look casual , holding the rifle
" i can kiss this sheet and see right through it at the same time .
i saw all that .
in his right .
you ' re not immortal , are you ?
“no , ” said the manager .
or it can have a wide snout like a hyena .
" there is no sense in being anything but practical though , he thought .
in some summers , a hurricane or two would cut swaths through the shack houses of the poor on the
there was no man smell carried toward him and he watched the object , moving his great head a little
” “don’t call me helena .
" but not tonight and not tomorrow .
” “please ?
“if a fish broke it and it wasn’t your fault , that would be something else .
the kid came out and had to kill five bulls because you can’t have more than three matadors , and
it was crowded with americans and we had to stand up and wait for a place .
he had come in with me an hour before .
i thought she was looking for another cigarette .
“the only thing is , ” he said , talking toward the wall , “i just can’t make up my
out the best ones to each other , unclasping their hands to do so .
then it began to make a slow hissing sound in the water and he still held it , bracing himself
she didn’t want to go to bed yet because she knew jim would be coming out and she wanted to
i got them tied up like a couple of girl friends in the convent .
” “i said that first .
“aren’t you going back to work , dear ?
" " my god !
he was face down and his face was in the pillow .
after the seventh round jack says , " my left ' s getting heavy .
“you take the bull and give him a little run when he comes out , ” manuel said .
“you can read and write , can’t you ?
“no you won’t , ” the bartender told him .
" you ' ve a hell of a biblical name , jake .
but i tell you he’s right .
goose-crap .
perhaps i would be able to sleep .
' ' texas is a big state , ' the colonel said .
quite sharply and the wind was on his right cheek and he said , with his old eyes catching the
” she bit her lip and then said , “i suppose i wanted to be partners even though i said
" if i give them a quarter they keep it all but if i give them only fifteen cents they
all the passes he linked up , all completed , all slow , templed and smooth .
' your husband , one of the bravest bastards that ever lived , an extraordinary wing shot and an excellent
so to-day he brought her in to be buried and the priest , when he looked at her face ,
” he drank the coffee and wiped his lips with the pink palm of his hand .
' hapana , ' he said glumly .
“come , signora , ” she said .
" " oh , you don ' t understand , " the boy said .
hell , everybody is off sometime .
tell him that , ” he said to the interpreter .
her mother shot quite well in that wonderful dope-head trance she had .
” “sometime we’ll go .
the graveyards of automobiles ; those mechanical elephant cemeteries that are the one certain thing you may find in our
it is a treachery of one ' s own body .
” “truly .
about the time when it became necessary to turn off the radio sister cecilia came in .
am going to write .
now she came in sight , walking across the open toward the camp .
keep me from ever talking , vicente .
dites garçon , un pernod .
jack stuck the left hand at him .
lifted , swaying as the nose searched for the wind , was another rhino .
sacrament .
" all in good time .
" nicolo .
“you and odgar go and talk .
as he thumped his life out against the planking of the boat with the quick shivering strokes of his neat
the old days .
they probably only come to the salt every couple of days .
he turned his head a little , very slowly , as they came onto the lighted driveway of the malecon
a blind is any artifice you use to hide the shooter from that which he is attempting to shoot ,
“to the nail kegs , ” claude raised the bottle .
“oui .
we wanted meat badly .
“talking is the easiest .
manuel leaned over and picked it up .
” “three of your countrymen were here .
we got along damned well .
" what day of the week is it ?
behind were m ' cola , garrick , and the runner , who was a man from the old man
she turned from pouring kerosene on the wood .
those were the two views since the wheeled chair had proved to be premature .
i have eaten the whole bonito .
” “we’ve been steering for sand key .
“why not try some , ” mr .
; fishing and shooting .
they came for nickie and they waited for him to come home .
it ' s a deflexion shot , he said to himself and they didn ' t lead me enough .
i ' m going right down and pray for him .
“want to go back and speak to the memsahib while we’re waiting ?
” “you go to the mass here ?
" you ' re the only friend i got , " jack says , " the only friend i got
" " the snow .
i wished i could have gone back with george to the kitchen of the dining car and heard him talk
“drink , ” he said , “drink .
” “of course , ” said nick .
we got out and georgette did not like the looks of the place .
' ' it certainly is , sir .
when you haven’t got the mobility .
” “i want to go , ” said macomber .
for the buckwheat cakes .
" " what does that do to your values ?
the day before we had been sniped out of a good place to film from and i had to crawl
i got to take a beating .
he had tiny feet that tried to hold on to the hook , and after that one time i never
turned in the high grass and crossed here as we were running down .
" " i ' ll bet he writes to you .
” “what’s the matter , damn it ?
" " good night , sir , " said the count .
“come on in , wemedge .
' ' what is this now ?
" " to stay a little while is nice .
" he must drink a lot of wine .
i took a long drink .
” “frank who ?
we could not follow the tracks the way the wind was blowing so we circled away from the stream and
it was possible to try to have a baby but cornelia could not attempt it very often although they wanted
' ' correct .
m ' cola handed me the springfield he had been carrying .
the panels were all dark and smoky-looking .
“i like it the way it is .
” “yeah ?
' ' n ' dio , ' he said .
he was positively green .
" " we ' re old friends , " said harris .
i never heard it said understandably before .
i saw the concierge standing in the doorway .
all during the fiesta you had the feeling , even when it was quiet , that you had to shout
first , there must be talent , much talent .
that day of watching the camel flies working under the horse ' s tail , having had them myself ,
” “and you’re all right ?
it was very pleasant and we were all great friends .
" " the lad who sought eunuch-hood .
he’d be reading the paris-sport and he’d look over at me and say , “where’s your girl , joe ?
sod .
hand on her breasts to feel them rise , quick-budding under his fingers .
" " this morning .
' ' what for ?
screwed the drag down when i wasn’t looking .
“oh , shut up , ” said the blonde .
i fill out a slip there for the questura .
“oh please darling .
" my nerves are rotten .
" " it ' s a rotten shame .
" so i am .
“i was just kidding him , ” he said .
" " do you mind if i give you that hundred pesetas in the morning , cohn ?
the reed-edged , dried-up bed of the lake with , far beyond , the shine of the water and the
" want to ride through the town ?
it is unnecessary .
' ' but the other two ?
romero was the whole show .
you crossed the creek on a log and if you stepped off there was the black muck of the swamp
“will that hold you ?
i put the nickel on the wood and he slid the beer toward me .
confronts him .
he built a little fire and put on the coffee pot .
" why didn ' t you let him stay and drink ?
it’s like making your own youth .
” “may your father remain undefeated , ” the chef said to me .
dans son café , vous savez !
” he could remember when he had been good and it had only been three years before .
he climbed through between the ropes and put his two fists together and smiled , and shook them at the
the captain told me to go because of the artillery .
but i saw this just in time to keep from shooting .
” “it’s grand .
“she picks up on my errors in spanish .
' ' i love my enemies , sometimes , more than my friends .
a crowd of natives .
" doctor wilcox asked him .
" mangez !
i jumped .
” we both looked at the man who spoke .
' ' no , ' said pop .
maybe it will open when the strong raw tuna is digested .
' ' you are never dull , to me , and i love you and i only wish we could
they promised the aga khan that because they fought in africa , indians could come freely to settle and for
” “two years after they dropped tom .
i knew it would happen when he went to new york .
if i cannot fish with you , i would like to serve in some way .
the light sea as though the ocean were making love with something under a yellow blanket , his small line
he had played polo .
it’s too early for snow .
he brings our gear himself .
would be to shoot david garrick in the behind , just to see the look on his face , sometime
" i wasn ' t saying .
until two-thirty .
he did not need to get his map out .
body to come out on the moraine , while her true love waited too , and they were still waiting
i am not an inquisitor ; or whatever the female of inquisitor is .
onto his knees and had both thumbs well in behind his talk box and i bent the whole thing back
" yes , " said george .
or has he got politics ?
” “what bad luck .
before he came to the staff cars he turned to the left and his head still held high in that
very attractively depicted and had nothing in common with actual rape in which the woman’s skirts are pulled over her
" you ought to stop off here , billy , and take a cure , " he said .
we stood now in the shade of trees with great smooth trunks , circled at their base with the line
then our true work begins .
the pink wall of the house opposite had fallen out from the roof , and an iron bedstead hung twisted
there was a time when none of us believed in the machines , and one day the major said it
he assures me he will be o k after this doctor finishes with him--do you think it right--i often heard
" he went in through the gate to the train .
and lavigne with the liqueurs , and after that we all went out and started for braddocks ' s dancing-club
he had such big feet he had to have made-to-order boots .
saragossa was a good anarchist town .
” “what about the tea ?
after that he had a few matches and then no more .
firewood and checked his rifle .
or their three days , or even their four , write books .
they also inspired five short story masterpieces .
i hope , he added , and drank a glass of the wine .
" i can ' t say i ' ve played any this year .
” “what did the other two do ?
johnson , ” i told him .
really useful .
" we sure did .
peduzzi was down at the river and did not notice her till she was almost out of sight over the
“oh , to hell with it , ” and went on to the dressing room .
but this is in bottles , hatuey beer , and i take back the bottles .
' serve him .
, lead-coloured and solid heavy with the wind and the tide now high over the landing steps of the palace
“it is very difficult , ” he said .
“my package .
he was looking out from the back seat to see the indian where joe had dragged him alongside of the
“ham and eggs for the son of the champion ?
besides you said was .
' the rhino was in high grass , somewhere in there behind some bushes .
" let ' s get out of this .
bull-fight experts .
where will we stay in wyoming ?
“you were going great .
" " well , well .
that summer the boy read books that his father found for him in the library and when he would come
i ' ll do it , he said to himself .
but listen , billy , and i ' ll tell you a secret .
are you in command of this dressing post ?
' i wish to serve you .
” he watched and after a while he said , “i’ll be damned if i can tell .
probably i read the same two pages over several times .
“they’re big ones with horns , ” manuel agreed .
the sexton watched him .
" laquelle est le best ?
“you can take a nap if you like .
” “two men with guns out after a boy because he killed a deer the twelfth of last month ,
father was in china— thanking you and trusting wholly in your advice i am and signed her name .
it ' s only a question of not spoiling the meat and selecting the more rugged specimens .
” john turned the handle and we all went in .
his wife knelt over him with wilson beside her .
toward the river .
the mast was nearly as long as the one room of the shack .
and pop came out and were very disappointed .
he looked at the man twice ; once in daylight , once with a flashlight .
“make it two sportsmen .
things like the handler opening the rooster’s bill and blowing in his throat when the referee would let them pick
nick stood up on the log , holding his rod , the landing net hanging heavy , then stepped into
the matador who was no longer a novelty was sitting looking out of his window preparatory to walking out to
' what ' s yours ?
“i can put a anchor down , ” he said .
" hello , jack , " he said .
" " nineteen or twenty .
” she asked in a flat voice , her two hands folded on his thigh now .
" " good , " said hogan .
" " you might as well stay here a while , " paravicini said .
" " how many fish did you catch ?
, with para commanding a battalion and he in a bloody american uniform .
' ' that was the trouble , ' the colonel said .
he said i’d never be able to tell it from regal .
” “well maybe then i’m not .
“i have a living to make you know in africa no woman ever misses her lion and no white man
any bull at all .
yes , he must .
i would not kill an italian .
she thought he did exactly what he wanted to .
“it’s a natural thing .
' pull up at the side of the road and cut to your parking lights .
" there was a man in the back yard of the next house doing something to one of the front
” “no , ” hogan said .
" william campbell breathed in and out through the sheet .
naturalists should all work alone and some one else should correlate their findings for them .
and there was always something new about them , while the girls , after i had thought about them a
a civilian in a brown suit , a white shirt , black tie , his hair brushed straight back from
“mademoiselle , ” he called again .
i love it so much and when i think of you taking it , then , it is as though
his own body , which was hard and good , but beat-up , and as he kissed her he thought
and what did any whore know about what he went through before be fought ?
" no , " said max .
” “i’d better make the call .
it was cold and complicated getting dressed ; i had not worn shoes and stockings all summer and it was
he wore a black smock like all the rest .
there was a good smell .
” “i can hear you , all right , ” al said from the kitchen .
boasting .
inside , the café was crowded and very noisy .
the crowd was packed on the sidewalks and many of the shops were shuttered , and i could not find
but he’s smart and he’s bad , i used to know him .
” “if there’s two of us they’d look harder .
“poor old schatz .
" " oh , shove it along , michael .
macomber was watching the opposite bank when he felt wilson take hold of his arm .
maybe he suddenly felt fear .
" morgan said .
' i have a disappointment about everything .
it said it was the first notice that the five years were up and would he make arrangements for the
" " lying down ?
this settles it coats the surface of a mirror so that it is as powdered as the windows which have
" you won ' t stay ?
“guard the razor , ” he said and went out .
some one grabbed him and held him .
frazer sent down word whenever notre dame scored , and finally , when it had been dark a long time
" " after you , brother .
already speak italian like little venetians .
the moon had not risen and it was dark , but the outlines of the men showed against the lightness
' droop said he was good .
” “that was in the time of my lion .
' ' he said he heard you .
and saw there was clearance .
back to the edge of the burned place to get above him and then hunted very carefully against the wind
never in this hotel of course .
" " when do we eat ?
when they first start nailing him , there isn’t none of them wouldn’t stop it if they could .
but you can stay with him forever .
the girl came in with some ham and eggs and took away the grape-fruit .
" big dolphin .
” “sit down there , ” my father said .
i would always have it .
' that shows that he is industrious even if he has outlived his talents .
they could wheel him in here .
" " sent by the police to see me .
then i took a shower in the bathroom and went down to lunch .
“come on , ” said wilson .
i didn’t save my maidenly state because i thought it would bore you and besides i gave you up for
i had to slip her plenty and i hit pretty hard .
you couldn ' t get out to her .
i wish i could go .
“don’t argue with me !
a soldier came in and put some pine branches , chopped into irregular lengths , into the stove .
he’s giving me a few extra treatments .
manuel furled the muleta in his left hand .
" you ' ve no idea , jake .
' s face .
they sold extra for gigantic prices .
they ride very fast because the race is usually limited to a short distance and if they slow their riding
, the bush again close to the edge of the road , we came up into some hills and through
arrow-heads .
wheeler i’d say everything’s going finely mr .
" " you haven ' t been around much , have you ?
pull off his boots and he’d get into a pair of sneakers and all these sweaters and we’d start out
the young doctor’s friend and guide , which , being consulted on any given subject , told symptoms and treatment
they sat down at the table under the window .
manuel went in , carrying his suitcase .
“je veux shooter les rats d’eau .
then we came to the edge of the stream and the water quit being blue and was light and greenish
i heard mr .
if the price is right , i am going to buy it .
' ' if it is not un-maidenly , how soon can we meet , and where ?
each inch of it .
to cock rather than keeping it on the safety .
all the papers in andalucia devoted special supplements to his death , which had been expected for some days .
why is it that all the fast-moving fish of the dark current have purple backs and usually purple stripes or
” “this is wonderful .
” “why is it bad ?
the colonel had paid his bill and made the proper tips .
five nights a week the working people of the pantheon quarter danced there .
and had a snow-burned face , what he would drink and the young fellow took the same .
" " the yankees cannot lose .
the thirteen saloons that had lined the one street of seney had not left a trace .
_ _num_ d soldier_--you ' ve been drinking water .
" it encouraged him to talk because his back had stiffened in the night and it hurt truly now .
" fine , " jack says .
i ' ll take it up with the _gran maestro_ .
” “i’ll take another cup of coffee , ” roger said .
moving heavy and slow and looked at them and when his father fired the second barrel the elephant seemed to
" perhaps he wants some kek , " fontan said .
' mine .
but you know , in our army , they don ' t even shoot for self-inflicted wounds .
the hands of the clock marked seven o’clock , and then five minutes past seven .
“do you see her ?
bill was filling the glasses .
i’ll get cards printed mrs .
there must be .
" we better go back .
” “a little wobbly .
" just ahead of them was the crowd , and some chap tripped and brought the whole lot of them
they only stopped to growl with laughter or to roar with laughter at the good lion and to snarl at
come in , so i shoved through the crowd to the fence .
" mike called .
then i know the war can ' t be far away .
" just then the fish gave a sudden lurch that pulled the old man down onto the bow and would
the wood lot had never been cut over and the forest floor was dry and warm without underbrush .
' i ' ll remember that all week and try to be one .
wind .
everything became quite unreal finally and it seemed as though nothing could have any consequences .
there were two other women whose faces meant nothing to the colonel .
' ' tell me some more , please , and be just as bitter as you want .
“that has only happened once .
the stern to do the work and make the decision .
watched the bull’s feet .
” “forty-five cents .
i think he figured maybe no one would come in if they saw him at the door .
account it was a bigger place with more room .
well , it was the poor sod’s own bloody fault .
” “the real couvet pontarlier sixty-eighth-degree ?
as soon as a rider is caught and passed he is out of the race and must get down from
the old man let him hit the fish and then drove the knife on the oar down into his brain
the pot on .
“it is doubtless a common experience , ” said johnson , “like the first visit to the dentist or the
" i can lash my knife to the butt of one of the oars .
” “yes , certainly they’ll fly .
" " listen , my dear .
he had flashes of the old greatness with his bulls , but they were not of value because he had
you didn’t have to listen to that firing .
the razor’s a delusion , jimmy .
' ' i ' ll find him at harry ' s .
“it’s about russia .
i can make them start all right and i can take them up to where they will have to quit
" yes , my dear .
the telegram was in spanish : " vengo jueves cohn .
“i came from fornaci , ” nick said .
gordon , because he was in the pacific .
' ' surely , ' the colonel told her .
” “we’re all right if we’re going where i think .
you’ve less chance of being killed .
why do you do it ?
harris ' s table .
one of them walked unsteadily .
the money was all right .
it was getting late in the afternoon and he saw nothing but the sea and the sky .
i introduced them all around and they started to sit down , but there was not enough room , so
jim was sleeping with his mouth a little open .
” “oh , i’m glad .
" he ducked down to the bowl , rinsed his face with cold water , put on some alcohol ,
” “i’m not talking rot .
” “i want to go home to bed .
nick took it in his hand .
some sort of y .
" not really .
in and said , “the call to stevie is ready .
you might get going .
they were still in their wrappers unopened .
the sun shone while he drank .
animals on a plain can see so far that they have confidence and feed very differently from animals in the
how are your scaloppine ?
he was watching us helling along and the other two buff galloping .
" she ' s an extraordinary wench .
into the pine-studded slope of the hill that rose behind the old royal hunting lodge that was called the caso
' ' sure , ' the colonel said .
rumored but never occurs , and as the society columnist put it , they were adding more than a spice
" " it ' s cold up here , " bill said .
” “you’re looking very well yourself , ” the barman said .
“how’s cayetano , sister cecilia ?
a wonderful reputation on the coast .
chapter xxv at the gritti , the _gran maestro_ seated them at the table which was beside the window that
" the bull turned , seemed to brace against the fence as he charged in a scramble , driving into
' this way , my colonel , ' the boy said , when the elevator halted with slight hydraulic inaccuracy
i’ve known him since i first started to run over there .
they were each over three feet long and when they swam fast they lashed their whole bodies like eels .
' ' a little .
i sat down on the edge of the bath-tub .
rig now to get some sleep , old man , while the fish is calm and steady .
’” “they never answer , ” john said .
“you owe two hundred and ninety five dollars for that rod and reel and line , ” i told johnson
" " give me chicken croquettes with green peas and cream sauce and mashed potatoes .
we couldn’t have come to a better place for me .
, sweeping horns , brown as walnut meats , and ivory pointed , at the big ears and the great
” i said the equivalent of like hell it is in spanish , and the waiter brought over a bottle
' do you know any of these morning drinkers ?
maybe he would lose it .
now you enjoy that slowly , and then you can get drunk .
“you mustn’t , jim .
it was very cold and firmed , only smoothed in .
” “i’m hungry too .
cortina is in a high valley in the mountains .
you can’t ever tell about those guys .
that lousy crut of a brakeman .
the germans we saw coming now were on bicycles .
i went down backward under a table .
" asked the voice .
the canal , but the banks weren’t like this river .
“doesn’t it taste wonderfully ?
it doesn ' t leak .
' ' i don ' t know that we did .
to work is normal .
“i should have a musette full of chocolate .
only it ain’t really like the galleria because there everybody is going by all the time and there’s everybody around
he came astern on the engines and threw out the two clutches .
they were behind him and macomber was filling his rifle , dropping shells onto the ground , jamming it ,
' i must say i don ' t care for this sportsman in spite of what b ' wana simba
that would be a hell of an idea after we ' d just talked it out .
hold him very tight .
if he’d had the harness on it would have taken him along , too .
your head in it .
the softly rolling grass .
” “i’ve got on three sweaters .
altogether extraordinary .
' ' you rolled him over , ' pop said to me .
her years had been precipitated suddenly when she started travelling .
you move a little to the left .
she had not stopped looking at pedro romero .
but he had brought nothing useful to the hunt and they would have been far better off without him .
" " might remember a little , " bill said .
there is one other house where the delegate lives but it is back from the beach .
then the music broke wildly and the step was finished and they were all dancing on up the street .
_num_ shorts under the brown-needled floor at the base of a big hemlock .
and had a good time seeing the town again .
' ' belly-ache , ' said pop .
of them and one old wormy-looking guy that went by with post-cards of paris , showing them to everybody ,
“he had no warning and no chance to prepare himself , ” the one in command said .
" it is alcohol that mounts to my head .
i wouldn ' t take a nickel from you .
' ' no , ' she said , not understanding the colloquialism , but understanding exactly what was meant ,
i got to stick with it , manos .
i’ve felt like that plenty of times .
we ought to get some coal .
" how do you feel ?
“yes , sir , ” the barman took the orders .
" is there good swimming in biarritz ?
nobody bothers you .
then he flew around the old man ' s head and rested on the line where he was more comfortable
mike had a way of getting an intensity of feeling into shaking hands .
" " if you like , " brett said .
' ' i wish we could have fought with the condottieri when all you had to do was out-think them
seat .
the referee called them out to the centre of the ring and jack walks out .
the hoppers were already jumping stiffly in the grass .
' we all drank and when m ' cola opened the second bottle pop refused , firmly .
" " the doctor .
" " no , i insist .
i saw a hawk hunting over a field and his mate too .
“what’s that you say , cap ?
then , after they built it , the mouth of the sile river silted up or a big flood changed
” “do we go through it very long ?
when he was on the right-hand side of the road , facing south towards the road junction that would put
they came over too high and never circled .
warm and beautiful with the shining bronze plumage , so different from the blues and blacks of a domestic turkey
cloud .
" you be in town before the fight ?
' but they explained that you were out .
then he looked at the portrait and he thought , i have her in two positions , lying down ,
and how many monuments are there to us in the canals of this town ?
” they came in heavily loaded and everyone was very cheerful .
the broom was in the corner .
the clearance was paid when we came in .
i want to see who it belongs to , ” dick said .
then i motioned to kamau to throw in the clutch and we went on and made a curve to the
" " i know it , " cohn said .
” they climbed out through the ropes and hogan came over to me .
but he said no , he would look after it .
” “one summer .
“o .
but we have killed many sharks , you and i , and ruined many others .
he’d break your bloody heart .
' god , what a kudu .
he only looked up with his eyes .
brother , the servant of heroes , sitting in the dust by the heroic dog of a hero who held
after we had stepped out into the bushes to let a big car go by jack said , " to
they were our friends , not his .
all to please me .
” “about one month ago .
now as we went higher there was a wind blowing the grain .
" that wouldn ' t do any good .
that was why he hated kid lewis so .
he’d gone into the first bodega he’d seen and bought it and come aboard .
" i ' m sorry i can ' t go , " mike said .
big , big bull .
" " i can ' t take it .
“there’s the speisekarte , ” i said to john .
” “i can’t help it , ” nick said .
and two horses pulled sideways out off it , and kept on going , and three others were piled up
” revolution , mr .
come over here and tell you every year ?
she went on talking to my wife .
” the cook said .
on his way up to jessup .
thinking .
“i’m going good now , i tell you .
i could feel it warming in my stomach .
about his job for the afternoon .
i always like the bad ones .
' ' that ' s what i was doing in the first place , ' the colonel told her .
in this you drown in mucus , choking , and how you know the patient’s dead is : at the
“here he comes , ” wilson said .
thick marsh to which we thought the ducks might fly .
' ' do i ?
' ' we owe nothing , ' the colonel said .
the flopping and bouncing mr .
you get syphed up from women or if you’re married your wife’ll run around .
in this , the lower river .
is it a good town ?
they were cutting away his shirt .
" i don ' t need it .
do you wear yours all the time ?
women into ecstasy , the children into panic , and the warriors into delight .
take another cup of wine , please .
yes , i know about that .
there was an explosion and a billowing of white smoke and then the black smoke rolled higher ; but from
i thought she might have said something .
” “i’d be afraid if i were alone .
“you’re a fool , ” mr .
” nick walked barefoot along the path through the meadow below the barn .
' ' would you give any suggestions ?
” “i’d like to go to mr .
' ' not any more , ' the girl said .
i was very drunk and i did not want to shut my eyes because the room would go round and
as the doctor from the first-aid station came up the stairs accompanied by a policeman who held on to enrique
' ' of course he feels badly , ' pop said .
there’s nothing here for you to do .
on the main highway nick could see the lights of other cars up ahead , going out of sight ,
when he opened the door , during a shelling , and saw that ghostly announcement staring at him from the
and they knew , too , about the richer boys who , in different cities , had paraffin injected under
then sevastopol made me think of the boulevard sevastopol in paris , about riding a bicycle down it in the
about this ; something practical ; something that will be good for me even if it cannot help about the
“i have your big gun , ” he said .
i watched him come walking across the square .
carnera knocked him out .
“f— yourself .
' that night we got into our old camp at m ' utu-umbu , under the big trees , not
he shook the skillet sideways and the cake was loose on the surface .
" what will you do when the war is over if it is over ?
slide down a mile deep .
sooner or later it would come .
blew through them all the time .
the body was unspeakably mutilated , they used to put in this same paper .
he bowed at the dark , straightened , tossed his hat over his shoulder , and , carrying the muleta
" " what a night !
i have not seen him pull his baedeker during the meal .
they were very bad and wicked lions indeed .
surface , which is the face .
served in the shell .
he’s going to send some this afternoon .
his father came back to him in the fall of the year , or in the early spring when there
" a wound ?
we ain’t never made friends .
but it’s the pace always—not the jumps—that makes the trouble .
they’re telling each other stories about how smart they are .
" " oh , some one took her home .
was no longer enough light to shoot , a hyena crossed the open on his way around the hill .
come out .
now it seems almost impossible .
hell , no .
on the trail .
" " at one time i was under the age limit , " nick said .
" " oh , " said bill , sucking the drumstick , " how should we know ?
“it’s too late .
two hundred yards , offhand , breaking his neck at the base of the skull .
the old man unhooked the fish , rebaited the line with another sardine and tossed it over .
t he n i c k a d a ms s t o r i e s , t h
they were all running , packed close together .
” roger asked the girl .
noisy and smoky at certain hours , and there were always girls at the tables and the illustrated papers on
after that their manner changed a little toward me , although i was their friend against outsiders .
there was only the night porter .
do you think it will change me into a boy ?
“nicolo , ” paravicini called .
there was no question of the old man going .
" i need a pencil for that , " he said .
he stepped close and jammed the sharp peak of the muleta into the bull ' s damp muzzle .
” he called to the bull , “tomar !
“but now i am reformed out of the war .
“i was taking care of animals , ” he explained .
they were not even quartering on the scent .
and its beauty .
" " no , i mean you don ' t have to stay if it ' s going to bother
" " il est bon , le pump , " fontan nodded his head .
" " i ' ll say , " said doctor wilcox .
look at ford .
' ' i guess not .
he looked down and thought , “what savages these lions are .
' they are expecting him at any moment and i am keeping the line open in case he arrives .
“and for writing in my book .
please drink your wine .
" i told him everything exactly as you said and he said to tell you , truly , that he
” “you follow them pretty close , hogan ?
in a hundred yards we came on him absolutely dead .
” “you can call me alice , ” the big whore said and then she began to shake again .
they had taken him for a soldier in nineteen fourteen when he had come back to visit his family ,
" i got out with a rag .
nor would you gather that they had bodies .
“you pay villalta seven thousand , ” manuel said .
her breasts felt plump and firm and the nipples were erect under his hands .
in the aisle .
you killed biggest cow .
but you also know you are a bastard in quite different ways from her ways .
“betty co-ed” was a good tune too , but the parody of the words which came unavoidably into mr .
" " with me it ' s different .
the dancers were in a crowd , so you did not see the intricate play of the feet .
be told there was no one home , chez barnes .
until nearly noon .
' he ' s got nothing to worry about .
so i like it , because it’s my country .
” “do you think you will be able to sleep ?
i will not name names because i might omit some fine ones and that would be unjust .
it’s really sort of nice .
there aren ' t any foothills to the big horns .
and style collar .
" ' ' he ' d devaluate , ' the colonel said .
' there isn ' t anything to say .
shot and shot at the whole animal instead of calling the shot .
' ' if you ever fight , then you must win it .
i walked as far as the church , looking on both sides of the street .
it ' s all part of the same process .
he loaded both his guns and checked the position of the boat that was putting out decoys .
“et le lendemain il ne reste rien .
pretty , very modest , very wifely , wearing a garment of brown tanned skins and neck ornament of concentric
' you ' re hunting it in the morning , ' karl said .
end of the log .
that’s quite correct mr .
a british freighter was going out and i ran along beside her and passed her .
but i _was_ worried and i did not want to go to sleep and wake up feeling dopey so i
he knew he could not stop it now .
did you walk far ?
asleep now .
bloody military medals ?
" james , " one of the clients addressed the barman , " you ' re looking very well .
but what a fish to pull like that .
the bow-man missed them .
then , when we were past , he jumped .
“drink , ” said wilson .
if they don ' t , shoot two and try to scoop the others out some way .
kamau had rigged a tent out of a big canvas ground cloth , hung my mosquito net inside , and
and i never tried them for breakfast .
" it ' s hot , my god .
” “not very many , nick .
i was thirsty after the run and the climb , and the sun was up now and it was getting
that was where i grew up , he thought , and all the nights i woke sweating , dreaming i
took an awful dislike to him , though .
“is that all right , gidge ?
that should be enough .
you can ' t go wrong .
" he was still very polite , but he was surer of himself .
trees grew around its open area so that it was as though the game were in the blind and you
when i met her down here brett treated me as though i were a perfect stranger .
bridge and two squares afterwards you turn due right and keep along it till you are in harry ' s
“you haven’t seen this guy henry around that owns the place , have you ?
put it in his shirt pocket .
their windows , marked sol , sol y sombra , and sombra , were shut .
the book was something by a .
but who knows ?
" rather , " said mrs .
" " he ' s through now , " harvey went on .
“i’d like it better if you didn’t use words like that , ” the girl said .
decision to make and don’t know just whom to trust most i dare not ask my parents—and so i come
“they are aviators with contracts .
he crawled back into the swamp , pulling his sack of fish .
he didn ' t even look good doing that .
“would you pic two bulls for me tomorrow night ?
that cracked and ripped as the boat drove up on to it .
" " yes , " i said , " i ' m blind .
“it is necessary to be formal .
shoot at the two ducks that were dropping down , their wings set to brake , coming down dark to
' ' i would accept a horse from you , if i was poor and young and riding very well
' ' no , ' he explained .
john packard .
" " what ' s the matter with her ?
" he said aloud and struck hard with both hands , gained a yard of line and then struck again
” “with us , ” said johnson , “it’s different .
i ' d rather have fun .
below us a battle was being fought .
” manuel reached under the seat for his suitcase .
that ' s why he ' s leaving me .
" out in the centre of the ring romero profiled in front of the bull , drew the sword out
" i ' ll bring the food and the papers , " the boy said .
" all right .
or go crazy and get section-eighted .
it was cold now in the time before daylight and he pushed against the wood to be warm .
“you must have had a very good summer .
we have the valpolicella for the other things .
that fellow shiras---- " " you call him that fellow ?
no , that was somewhere else .
" " i could ask her what kind of a jam they think they ' ve gotten into in the
that had sifted in through the windows on the table in the dining room and going to the cupboard where
“with no g-men nonsense , ” said the secretary .
they ' d never be beautiful to-night .
” marjorie did not say anything .
to me it is always interesting .
or muck about danger .
it was the first big bull that garrick had pointed out .
he was simply poison .
one of the other men snickered .
fontan did not say anything but swear in english .
“i wouldn’t turn him over , ” wilson said .
he called it to himself living straight .
he kicked into a cushion as he ran .
' ' don ' t you want to come ?
we carried the things down to the dock .
” the girl began to cry , sitting straight up and looking at him .
but plenty .
' ' how much is it to the gritti ?
“if i run they will shoot .
” “come on inside .
" " all right , " he said .
channel and then out around the end seeing the channel bank slope off underwater and the pickerel weed growing underwater
back and fireweed growing beside the track and nothing more to look at to remember .
maybe he ' s a little better .
hell , no girls get married around here till they’re knocked up .
excellent and the room and board was cheap .
they drank cold regal beer and ate a steak each with mashed potatoes .
" " she ' s indian all right .
slant of the hill carrying a stretcher .
' ' thank you for the such as us .
” “yes , sir ?
it always fools you .
as he walked back along the halls he thought of luz in his bed .
as i started to walk down the gran via to chicote’s in the april twilight i felt happy , cheerful
" i asked him .
the end , and his mouth was very dry .
being slightly out of hearing of the orator , responded , as one man , at the pause for the
” “gee , let’s get under , ” nick said .
“he said it was quite safe .
je le ferais , i said .
morgan , ” odgar said .
' but my own .
will you please drink the other bottle ?
” “oh , a long time ago , ” said my father .
the crowd were running fast now .
“i won’t .
but take one good look at it .
nick reached down his hand to touch him , his arm to the elbow under water .
" " i ' ll think about it .
the lick where karl shot his bull , having failed in the hills , the big hills and the small
" yes .
' with our one and only life .
' ' yes , sir , i have my map .
if you loved me , you’d want to come over and watch me play indoor .
' i will take them for better or for worse .
she knew all the patent medicines in the next case and who usually bought them .
" let me take the glasses , " bill said .
perhaps the honorable pacciardi will fight there .
" " take it back .
direction to follow around clumps of trees and along the run of this green valley .
he says no one has ever hunted there .
don’t make a confusion .
" did you see ole ?
stop it right now .
of his brain disturbed by a piece of broken steel in it , lay a day , a night ,
he ' s in bad shape .
after i reached a certain level of command , many nice people , but only two good masters .
the waiter saved chairs for the others , and we each ordered an absinthe and watched the crowd in the
' ' any time you were cold or couldn ' t remember afterwards .
it will be harder to eat than the bonito .
the creek crosses the main road we were on and it goes through a farmer’s land .
the slashings had run up to the top of a ridge and over and then the forest began .
” “i thought it was his lawyer .
“but look , luis , if you need some money—” i was holding the stiffly folded , shiny-heavy-paper , green
” “did you like that manolita girl ?
' and you send them back to have it done to them with eleven different copies of why it should
the gray hairs in the folds of his neck oscillated as he drank , his eyes fixed on the end
then odgar would want them to be just the same friends as ever .
' ' do i figure ?
prisms in the blue water that the old man saw now with his lines going straight down into the water
we went around to the garden to weigh in after lunch .
' it can ' t be .
we’ll let her try it without .
paid for the drinks , leaving half a peseta tip .
” “yes , ” said my wife .
it was getting into the afternoon and the boat still moved slowly and steadily .
' he held her as tight as he could without hurting and she said , ' i would not have
" " with everything and with women .
" sure , " said zurito .
we were close to the bank now , and ahead , the game trail went straight out into a long
finally the afternoon comes and you start .
” “no , nickie .
" we all shook hands .
the myriad flecks of the plankton were annulled now by the high sun and it was only the great deep
' ' it is a way of ending a day .
it was a wonderful day .
how could i ?
jack is always calm in close and he doesn’t waste any juice .
” “what makes you think it will come tomorrow ?
conscience , it has been a long time since we were frightened by the thunder .
" want some ginger-ale ?
i was reading a book by turgenieff .
high orchard country before he went down into a valley that led , steeply , into the canyon .
" " fifteen years .
i wish they would fly , the colonel thought .
as we came in nobody was talking and the ticket window was down .
" he ' ll be back in about half an hour .
he rubbed his belly and seemed to be telling them what a hell of a man he was and how
the high ground to the meadow .
" " they ' re all right " --montoya shook his head-- " but they ' re not too good
work .
not drunk in any positive sense but just enough to be careless .
' ' who are these writers ?
“hello , ” he said and shut the door and bolted it .
_num_ d soldier—he was all right .
you wouldn ' t understand the campaigns in detail , and few others would .
the third porter seemed a little deaf .
break that other silly bugger ' s nose and kick his silly ass out of here .
one of jim’s hands went inside her dress and stroked over her breast and the other hand was in her
the address was : " barnes , burguete .
you could see the buckshot marks all over the sidewalk like silver splatters .
" he wrote in indelible pencil , tore out the slip and handed it to me .
beer and wished old chink was along .
“it was frightful .
the weed pollen was dusty in his face and as he wriggled steadily along , the sand-burrs stabbing his hands
in it was brett .
he had been paid off and had agreed to the amount , but now he would not leave the car
but i can only get one blanket .
you did not need a girl unless you thought about them .
the taxi started and brett waved .
his mouth was dry again , but it was excitement , not fear .
the tanks .
he remembered the time he had hooked one of a pair of marlin .
“here comes a big one , ” she said .
just technically i mean .
mile and a half .
” “i think it was just that boy of his found it .
” “what a question !
the banderillero was middle-aged , gray , cat-quick in spite of his years and , sitting at the table he
keep it clean , he said to himself .
true .
" " you are joking , sir ?
” kate cuddled against him .
' ' not so much .
and if he marries me , like he ' s always promised he would , that would be the end
” “mostly gulls and terns .
' this got a laugh from the wanderobo-masai , who was getting to look a picture of sick misery .
or we can go on a really good train .
then we bought , and then we all went out into the sunlight and the heat , and climbed back
of football players who have been removed from a game for yellowness .
but it coagulated and dried before it reached his chin and he worked his way back to the bow and
“give me a drink out of that .
hardly noticing is bad , he added .
“that the train is coming in five minutes .
first thing in the morning i got hold of the broker and told him to clear us .
” “i’ll do it .
havana .
the mexicans were having a good time .
manuel stood up and , the muleta in his left hand , the sword in his right , acknowledged the
one day she found that she liked it the way the hair was black on his arms and how white
“oh , yes , ” i said .
they were huge .
” “you don’t care what happens to a man , ” the nigger said .
' ' i agree .
nothing had changed .
in the landes there is yellow gorse in between the pines .
" i ' m going down and eat .
' ' my husband , ' said my wife .
' ' he ' s more than that .
ladder .
we could send the lorries around to meet us at what ' s the name of the place ?
he ' s been training jack .
i put the bucket over the top of the stove pipe to keep out the rain and to keep squirrels
with the hot fat .
wilson , ” she told him and smiled again .
he was very large .
i knew everything i had ever written and everything that i had great confidence in was gone .
“all of six thousand feet and i think my diaphragm is busted loose in front from when she came taut
kamau and m ' cola fixed up a camp and the wanderobo-masai stood on one leg and let his mouth
” “he’s in the royal air force .
" " he ' s gone to drink at my colleague ' s , the löwen .
“i only just got it , ” she said .
" " you ' re cock-eyed , " i said .
“al , ” said the voice again .
they’re taking it now , coming in from the west .
the original waiter poured his glass full mechanically , and the three of them went out of the room talking
but he didn’t feel like it .
" " and the number containing the panorama of the volcanoes of alaska ?
' he walked out after waiting carefully for his coat , swinging into it and tipping the man who brought
he watched a gondola working up the canal against the wind and thought , not with americans drinking .
” “i like new orleans now .
swing with their bills .
“the best arrow-heads went all to pieces , ” he said .
“geez , papa , i’m sorry , ” the boy said .
but in this country , if you ever want to know a _really_ tough town where they eat wonderfully ,
i thought i ought to see some painting so i went to that big place in florence .
” “you’re too smart , ” nick said .
” “i don’t have much .
i do not think i ever really hated him until he had that little spell of superiority at lunch--that and
for better or for much worse .
i washed , changed my shirt , and went out in the town .
" i don ' t know , " one of the men said .
” “and do you know george shiras two ?
“if anything happens so we haven’t time to get her up , we can cut loose or break her off
no one person’s fault .
the first german i saw climbed up over the garden wall .
very cold and his right arm was asleep because his head had rested on it instead of a pillow .
just before leaving , i had marked the place in quite the oldest way there is of marking a place
you wouldn ' t believe what just happened about that one .
“we ought to have gone .
” “i’ll go down and see , ” he said .
' i asked .
he left it there to remind him to get a new one and afterwards i think to remind him of
when will we be tight ?
” “i’m lonely now thinking about going away from you .
” “maybe not .
you wouldn’t like to make up a party and see the night life of vevey ?
" i want to sit down below , next time .
” “couldn’t your brother really be your beau just because he’s your brother ?
” inside the room the major lay on his bunk .
' ' it sounded pretty good .
' ' i ' ll tell you how it was , ' the colonel said , ' and general walter
" after a little while bill said : " well , it was a swell fiesta .
they ' re really dreadful .
i’m going to keep everything a secret always .
' ' in this side alley , if you know no one who lives in it .
' ' they didn ' t have much duck shooting where i came from .
' tell me , what do you think of ringelnatz ?
it was all in his eyes .
“would you mind going down to the chapel or sending word down to sister cecilia that notre dame has them
i felt it with my thumb and fingers .
she runs it fine .
that made a difference .
bell , ” nick said .
the milk cows lay with their rumps against the wind and the cuds they chewed were gritty .
the stern .
" you ' re too good to me .
“i don’t remember what i said .
he did not want to go down to the dock .
first you could make up stories about something innocuous , like me , and then there could be all sorts
who was making anything at all and a bill was never presented to a guest unasked until the woman who
" zurito sat his horse , measuring the distance between the bull and the end of the pic .
" the american lady looked and saw the last car .
" " you go to the mass here ?
” “i’m going to talk .
all of a sudden everybody started to throw things .
” “there isn’t anything i can do about it , ” ole andreson said .
to shoot out here ?
“copains no bloody bon , ” red said .
" he said ' you ' re a lovely piece , alice .
" revolution , mr .
if you’re all right it’s the most fun that i’ve ever had .
, reduced from being a general officer , said .
" " probably he ' s nervous now .
" are you related to georgette leblanc , the singer ?
' then the colonel asked the _gran maestro_ to accompany him in a drink , but the maitre d '
the café .
the day was very hot , now before the wind had gotten up , and we knew whatever rhino and
“and now i think i shall kill you and eat you , wings and all .
it was a shock .
' ' here it is not that way , ' she said , and , with the comb , swung
" " sure , " said jack .
braddocks called down the table to braddocks .
” “can’t you let a man die as comfortably as he can without calling him names ?
stars .
the waiter came over .
when they were at the top of the hill they looked back and saw the lake in the moonlight .
' the concierge came into the room with the portrait , carrying it in its big frame , much as
them got in to row .
" " have another ?
” he went out of the room .
the fellow who had her chartered was on board waiting .
there was a bitter argument about the shutter while the light failed , and i was nervous now , irritable
i remember resolving that i would stay up all night to watch the bulls go through the streets at six
steve ketchel was the finest and most beautiful man that ever lived .
say you must have got married awfully young .
then they go bad .
' ' i slipped into the jargon of my _sale mètier_ .
there is going to be plenty of it for us all the rest of our lives .
' you go to hell , ' i told him cheerfully .
brett wasn ' t having any shaking hands , and cohn was crying and telling her how much he loved
“it mounts to my head .
, now that you could no longer do it .
' yes , now if you want , or will accept from kindness .
the rope came taut , shivered , and then snapped .
' you might even say it was a beautiful regiment until i destroyed it under other people ' s orders
“it’s not over your heads .
then we went up past the old fort and out to the local syndicat d ' initiative office , where
” “i can stay awake if you want .
if a jock’s riding for somebody too , he can’t go boozing around because the trainer always has an eye
forward on his knees .
i hated to buy it at twenty-eight cents a gallon but i didn’t know where we might go .
are the same , only they are without leaves .
“ils sont des sauvages , ” fontan explained .
she felt badly for fontan .
then , speaking confidently , to the detective , " he don ' t know who shot him .
' you are still _gran maestro_ and ---- the condottieri .
some were lying down .
moi , j ' aime les pommes de terre , le saucisson , et la bière .
go on ahead alone .
the girl came in with some ham and eggs and took away the grapefruit .
' ' let ' s not talk about him .
but today is eighty-five days and i should fish the day well .
“let a little mount to your head .
" here ' s the money , " he said .
' ' sure , ' the colonel said and remembered , as unbitterly as he could .
' he ' s huge .
of the fishermen kept their gear .
i am too old to club sharks to death .
” “no one can leave .
how could you have done such a thing ?
he was a good trout , and i banged his head against the timber so that he quivered out straight
in _num_ he signed up for ambulance duty in italy as a member of an american field service unit .
feeet up and the basilica looked more beautiful than a soap bubble .
held them tight .
her own will , lovely , loving and full of illusions about you , and with her asleep beside you
prize short-stories—will their authors write our best-sellers of tomorrow ?
” “you like being married ?
there ' s nice , warm , muddy water .
it is the wife of the working man who suf ers from this shortening of hours .
frankie stood on the dock watching .
' ' good hunting .
" " comfortably .
country for the benefit of the hindu and the natives .
if you wanted to shoot we could have gone shooting in hungary and been comfortable .
i leave him alone .
i simply turn all to jelly when you touch me .
“not really .
everybody liked him .
little big horn , with the ponies making the circle around them in all the dust and the sage brush
you want some more , shakespeare ?
" i ' m taking him home to my little girl .
i think the story business is bad .
we ' re going to go .
“i’m talking awfully wet but you have a right to talk wet if it isn’t going to hurt anybody else
i ' ve talked myself all out to jake .
, fast-moving tail .
now he looked up the creek and down it and up the hill to the hemlock forest where the camp
all the arms were pleasant that d ' annunzio served with and the mission was fast and easily over ,
drink out of them .
” “what’s he going to do ?
part ii mr .
it had backed a little further into the north-east and he knew that meant that it would not fall off
” “i know we will .
further back , a young man in a blue suit was writing at a table .
" .
m ' cola and i grinned and garrick looked virtuous .
we started tracking again , m ' cola shaking his head and very amused , and in a little while
the skillet .
" " nor i , " he said .
it was foolish to wait .
she was frightened .
” “this is a hot town , ” said the other .
" hello , retana !
it means more to you .
i can explain but it is quite long and may bore you .
as the glass rose i saw , printed on it with large red letters in what must have been a
but i try not to borrow .
finally .
he was worried all the time .
i am sorry , gentlemen , but i have to leave you .
“to the butterflies , ” onèsime drank .
" " they were ojibways , " nick said .
as his manager and sword-handler .
" there ' s been a wreck .
but i have killed this fish which is my brother and now i must do the slave work .
" " comment ?
he hit it with his blood mushed hands driving a good harpoon with all his strength .
it ' s a drink .
“we’re quite close , ” his father said .
orderly now .
i ' m sleepy now , " cohn said .
they will probably hit me again .
' ' i should say they are lesbians .
“listen .
but it was quicksand she ' d hit and when they opened the tanks she went in stern first and
for four years his horizon had been absolutely limited to his wife .
inside the room in the dark .
but don’t ask me any questions , see ?
or schlitz , he thought .
both eating ices and i kept looking at the girl and she was awfully good looking and i smiled at
" why not try some , " mr .
to lead the trout toward the net , but he was gone , out of sight , the line pumping
' m ' cola and the two roman guides agreed .
and the cruelty are all gone as the high-piled scow of garbage , bright-coloured , white-flecked ; ill-smelling , now
' ' no , ' the boatman said and shoved the boat savagely out on to the thin sheet ice
yes , she did .
you can’t drink labels and i sent three bottles back as bad before we got a drinkable one .
i don ' t know what they really wanted .
they laid him out on the table .
but if it was a failure everyone was in such a rage there was always a chance of being sent
" " oh , brett !
" this isn ' t battalion headquarters as we used to know it .
” morgan and steinfelt looked at each other .
manuel knew it was over .
he killed not as he had been forced to by the last bull , but as he wanted to .
especially odgar .
farmer , dressed in a dirty once-white cloth gathered at the shoulder in the manner of a roman toga ,
" but there was a moment when i could not find you .
” nick sat quiet .
" " anybody get hurt ?
' what time do you close the bistro ?
' ' you ' re a little hard on him sometimes , ' pop said .
i say it was a row .
' and you are the most beautiful woman i have ever known , or seen , ever in paintings by
i wasn ' t bored .
“i won’t touch you .
you’ve had a little .
" here come the gentry , " bill said .
i was afraid he thought he had hurt me with that crack about being impotent .
not when we rode from mestre to portogrande that night and i wanted to go to sleep and used the
the natives and the language .
" " un huh .
but walking down the street alone , all my elation died .
“keep me from talking , enrique .
' ' yes , sir , ' jackson said , and took the folded order blank with one hand and
what the hell is this all about ?
” “i understand that .
“there are a few who touch various instruments , ” the big one said .
wine-seller—you were in bad shape , lootenant .
gis somebody christened them .
" " sleep well ?
said .
poor chap .
if you are religious remember that what you complain of is no sinful state but the means of consummating a
" " he ' s nice to look at , " i said .
boulder-strewn cliff behind them , and a stretch of grass that ran to the bank of a boulder-filled stream in
' ' it ' s so damned ugly and i dislike looking at it .
" john says , leaning over him .
" " i can remember the tail slapping and banging and the thwart breaking and the noise of the clubbing
“jesus christ , ” i said to him , “you said you’d pay that and you took money out of
a black sauce with wine and butter and mushrooms and onion and everything in it , for the jack .
” “you take the rifle , ” i said .
i love that woman .
" i ' m going in the room .
” he leaned over the table and kissed her .
you loved him when he was alive and you loved him after .
“not tonight .
" where are the pics ?
smith went upstairs and pretty soon smith came out and went upstairs too .
“so do i , ” nick said .
the hotel was a long wooden building with a porch that fronted on the lake .
' ' i ' ve forgotten .
to hell with talking the language .
the baggage car .
" from where he swung lightly against his oars he looked down into the water and saw the tiny fish
air came out , and at ten feet the nigger shot him in the belly with his tommy gun ,
“i’ve found everything , ” his sister said .
he came over to the table and kissed renata ' s hand , saying , ' ciao , renata .
” “i may .
doesn’t do to talk too much about all this .
and quite cold when i handed the bottle to the old man , who took it where he was crouched
“your friend , ole andreson , isn’t going to come .
the cat was trying to make herself so compact that she would not be dripped on .
" " i can ' t just stay tight all the time .
would you like me to describe the scene ?
it shocked him .
" on the train going into town jack didn ' t talk .
his need for confidence , but secured temporarily through the absorption of the tablets , said , ' _ciao_ ,
sweat trickle down his back as he rowed .
' the porter , who was taking the bags from jackson , heard this and laughed .
" " he and mencken and i all went to holy cross together .
if the damn wind would hold .
because i did not want to ask for him until cipriani came in and i could pay for him .
he watched the tide pull at them and he saw how the chains had worn the wood since he first
way to kiss .
you’re called ‘sliding billy .
" and with them was brett .
eddy hadn’t shown up all night or all day but i knew he would be around sooner or later ,
” “you mean carry ?
the two girls named jeanne and maria had nothing in common except this sudden strange confidence which came when they
we ' ll try to get a rhino out of this country of droopy ' s and then you join
" eight pesetas is cheap .
' a lobster fills with the moon , ' the colonel told the girl .
he was no stanley .
' ' we shouldn ' t wish for too god-damn much , ' the colonel said .
” “i wanted to try this new drink : that’s all we do , isn’t it—look at things and try
for people .
“i can’t choose now .
" " yes , " said " sliding billy " turner .
jack didn’t make any move , so i gave the boy a quarter .
i tipped him and told the driver where to drive , and got in beside brett .
” “it’s bad .
modern plumbing .
' it was a good ride with a slight bump , and a rectification at the end , and the
” “i’m afraid that i’m not ready for that yet , papa .
pleased with the ducks , the first we ' d had since the serengetti , we all remembering how marvellous
but how would you like to be a girl nineteen years old in love with a man over fifty years
slowly behind the tram-cars and the motor trucks , liquid mud splashed on to the sidewalks , so that people
but thank god , some high fool always controls it , the colonel thought , and they did it piecemeal
” “not always .
" where did the boss dig this fellow up ?
i ' ll take some of this medicine and sign for the g .
i have my own reasons for disliking it , too .
' that ' s not the road for trieste , sir , ' jackson said .
” “good luck , ” helena said .
rotten painter .
" " let ' s go and look at the english , " mike said .
with its green lawn .
no use to sit there broadcasting it .
, ' the driver said .
just bed , he thought .
in the basque country the land all looks very rich and green and the houses and villages look well-off and
“don’t touch me .
" i ' ll stay with you , " cohn said .
” we were outside the room now .
but it is too late to try for strength now through nourishment .
' this air mission does not help much , daughter .
“he’ll tell them in town we’re out here .
of strings of bamboo beads , hung across the open door into the bar , to keep out flies .
no , he had never written about paris .
the boots , each one leg-down , on a stick and back far enough from the blaze where the fire
old karl had put it on us all right with that rhino .
” “it is interesting .
” “it’s a splendid idea , ” said harris .
everybody in this town likes me .
no rain had fallen in camp and they had been sure we would have something when we came in .
“he’s all bone , ” the boy said encouragingly .
” asked madame .
the bull tried to go forward , his legs commenced to settle , he swung from side to side ,
one shook his head .
the wind is from the wrong direction and how lucky i would have been to have had this girl instead
pop , he ' s got the best buff , the best rhino , the best water-buck .
hel-lo !
we have a lot of time to read when we are unmarried .
after all , it ' s his show .
up the road through the town under the big elm trees , past the last cluster of r .
i caught the bat in the landing net and kept him in a box with screen over it for a
' and have somebody show me to my room .
i never asked her if she could shoot .
” the waiter took the brandy bottle and another saucer from the counter inside the café and marched out to
' my wife also saved all the feathers and she asked me to thank you .
they aren ' t made , nor grown , as fast as a crop of potatoes is either .
“don’t you know them two ?
“he just wants us all to be friends , ” the man who talked said .
" would you like me to interpret for you ?
” “can’t we just go along the way we were going ?
" it is not bad , " he said .
' ' i ' m just a lousy belly-aching bastard but i swear they haven ' t gotten on my
“how do you feel this morning ?
two of the cuadrilla were back of him , with their capes ready to flop over the fence to distract
" you in the charlie chaplins ?
s corner .
” “no , i think it’s pretty easy , nick .
because i don ' t care about me .
just the lights over the ring .
” “she has a sick headache and she can’t see you .
zurito spoke to two of the other lads of the cuadrilla and they ran out to stand back of manuel
through his thorax and into the last segments of his abdomen .
all she does is read and go to the show .
“i was thinking of colonel lawrence’s book .
“that’s what i said .
" we leaned on the wooden rail of the bridge and looked up the river to the lights of the
the trees around the big house beyond the river came the flashes of our guns .
he waved to her and she did not wave back .
i want to see him again .
cook .
' we can meet at the garage at two-thirty if you like ?
they looked over his shoulder .
heh !
you probably will .
and the roar and rattle of broken plaster and the dust smoke over us i had the girl out of
nothing doing ?
" bill opened the door and put his head in .
uncle george gave both the indians cigars .
nick went around behind the counter .
all the others he avoided all contact with .
“i’ll pay for it , even though i don’t see it .
robert cohn shook hands because we were back .
it is no trick at all to catch a very great quantity indeed , and no officer , in my
" he is two feet longer than the skiff , " the old man said .
it is not the way hunting should be .
i tried to like the correspondents and there were some very good ones present at this meeting .
us .
" age is my alarm clock , " the old man said .
i never see you sleep .
never have i had such a strong fish nor one who acted so strangely .
he sliced it in two and peeled the silky outer skin .
" hahre you ?
they’d have babies dead for six days .
“get ready to turn it loose to him the minute he grabs it .
he’d known when he rode up at paris , before the war , lived at maisons , and there’s a
at dinner that night we found that robert cohn had taken a bath , had had a shave and a
we followed droopy into the thick , tall grass that was five feet above our heads , walking carefully on
' ' many .
, giving no sign of having noticed the stench , i handed them to garrick who promptly , without sign
” asked mr .
but those people certainly wear funny pants .
" the music stopped .
am i wrong ?
" he knows too damned much .
” “she’s been questioned before , ” said another .
after a while i found it .
the flying fish are too big for him and they go too fast .
sit there and catch flies and feed them to the ant lions in the dust .
he was bright in the sun and his head and back were dark purple and in the sun the stripes
she went out .
' ' you go back a long way back , my colonel .
he looked at the tent once more .
with nothing that will go bad afterwards .
she could feel her heart beating against the ground .
kubwa sana .
of the narrow brown bottle .
" that man would see .
' i don ' t believe you even saw him coming .
their wings were suddenly set to alight , as when you lower the flaps .
the earth , clear now from even stray bullets , and looked at what lay below us in the hollow
i can still shoot them .
he came over to our table .
cohn had been talking about the two of us going off somewhere on a weekend trip .
' s got in close he ' s socked so hard he ' s got two big red patches on
“what was the trouble about , dear ?
this gave him better control over them than he would have had at the index where they were scattered on
you can see to cut it with a comb .
' ' rather .
i am your lovely .
" i always pay everything back .
” “i went out fishing in the morning .
) “so when i get up out of water they take off the helmet and so i say i don’t
“nuts , ” said captain willie .
“he’s gone , ” said johnson .
“tell me , mon capitaine , how did you feel when you let the thing go ?
” said krebs , who was not fully awake .
if not , have them ring the house again .
solid taxi traffic , and the poules going by , singly and in pairs , looking for the evening meal
” said wilson .
' ' i ' m sorry .
all right , canvas girl , the colonel told her , not saying it aloud , we ' ll drop
” “they’ve drunk about a bottle , i guess .
” “i don’t know , ” nick said .
' s radar and it was called off .
who should ever discourage a liar , he thought , unless he is giving you co-ordinates ?
" will those last ones fight as well as the first ?
nobody ever talked about it .
angle down into the thicket .
i can ' t hate fascists , he thought .
" and you ?
he would do no routine tracking any more , but would rest and then track in irritating spurts .
the boy keeps me alive , he thought .
” “but why are you here now ?
we’ve got to be quiet , ” kate said .
“very bad politics .
was removed from active service before the october offensive .
them in italian , ' i am sorry that i am in uniform .
this was a good plan as it was nearly sundown and if the lion got into cover , wounded ,
my swift and my armour .
she just gets a sick headache like always .
old man was still braced solidly with the line across his back .
“that son of a bitch , ” fontan said to himself .
” asked macomber eagerly .
and salted the cut over his eye and on his forehead .
' it will be fine when we get to that new country , ' he said .
i ' m like a cat that way .
boy .
” “i believe he is .
“you might as well shoot the springfield , ” wilson said .
the big gate of the bull-ring was open , and inside the amphitheatre was being swept .
, and the shooter ' s two , or more , guns were propped against the load of wooden decoys
' ' i never saw him before to-day , ' the colonel said .
i must surely remember to eat the tuna after it gets light .
“don’t think about the wine .
' we lost what we had put in it .
” “not over five feet .
there were four other shooters before his father .
” asked the young gentleman frowning .
produce a sample of semen in a test tube that could be used for artificial insemination .
" " twenty-five lire .
' can you drink the lagoon water ?
“come on up to the room , jerry , ” jack says .
the other baits were still in the water but there was nothing to be done .
brett stared straight ahead .
” “equally .
maybe that was wrong and they kept their instruments at the place they revelled , but he always pictured them
" " i got sleepy , " i said .
" " he ' s such a fine boy , " said montoya .
“i’ll fix it up if you want to do it .
' ' you liked it ?
he took it and thanked me .
vertebral column , a very strange and unfortunate kudu .
“claude told him to halt in good french .
nick felt awkward and professionally happy with all his equipment hanging from him .
romero ' s left hand dropped the muleta over the bull ' s muzzle to blind him , his left
“that’s three times , ” she said , in the dark .
my father doesn’t need to kill elephants to live , david thought .
it’s the only thing that’s made us unhappy .
he sat heavily in the chair , his black cordoba hat tipped forward .
" have another port ?
the other was the sexton .
but it does seem to me to be a little late now , after we ' ve waited three years
“trust you .
josie is .
we were looking right down on him .
” “oh , shit , ” said the man from down state .
she went on up the stairs .
mike went out the door .
” “i’ll say , ” said doctor wilcox .
“my , i wish we had knockout drops .
they went up-stairs laughing .
she knew what the baskets were worth that the indians had brought in and that it was too late in
besides there was nothing to do .
“you and i will go down and give them the worst two and remove the kraut and the vélo .
” fontan looked very upset .
” “equally , ” said the big one .
just then the hyena stopped whimpering in the night and started to make a strange , human , almost crying
” the cot the man lay on was in the wide shade of a mimosa tree and as he looked
lines of merriment were clearly cut where they radiated from the corners of each eye .
" " have another drink .
” “like heinie zim , ” nick agreed .
so now they cannot write at all .
top secret equals british most secret .
to look across the frozen lagoon to the far , sedge-lined shore .
" i asked the waiter .
i said to him : ‘mr .
” “i’m sorry , daughter .
“speak to the lady in your native tongue , guy .
i ' d like to be buried out there , he thought .
his good hand .
he swung at him and hit only the head and the shark looked at him and wrenched the meat loose
the mediums came over and bombed who was left .
' ' i never wanted to hit anyone ; except perhaps andrea .
thanks for the drink we didn ' t have .
” “all right , ” said nick .
the children were all quite young and the men and women all seemed the same age .
the bull’s eyes watched it and turned with the swing , but he would not charge .
“i’m a bullfighter , ” manuel said .
” “like how much better you can pick them if you don’t see the horses .
it ' s for us .
he drinks without spilling .
” that was just around this next slanting turn the road makes up ahead .
" the major is sleeping .
" " i have mine left from today .
i had no idea , of course , that she ' d fall in love with him .
“under the trees .
he pushed it back in my hand .
i was trying .
what’s the matter with you ?
photographically .
[_the wine-seller puts out a pitcher of wine , a size smaller than the last one .
" " that ' s why i want to question him now .
” “that ought to cinch it for them .
maybe he can tell me what ' s right to do , she said to herself .
this does not sound so funny now but it was very funny then .
richard , what is a jerk ?
thaw might make a mistake .
“remember i’m in the people’s army .
" don ' t be cross with robert , " she said .
the great _clarte_ of the french military thinking .
“there isn’t any good in promising , ” he said .
so i would not be nervous .
why don ' t i just throw myself on the mercy of the court ?
the branches of the mangroves had come into the cockpit and they made a shadow over him where he lay
” “you said kids , ” the down-state man said .
he raised his baton .
” “bring another of the yellow gins and some bitters , ” i said .
the old man laughed too .
the detective looked up .
the river made no sound .
splayfoot they called him .
' let ' s go look at the first one , wanderobo-masai , ' i said in english .
the same fear you would have in a ring with a bull .
" one of the broads says .
i couldn’t see my old man anywhere .
fluke in spite of my unholy self-confidence .
“that willis sawyer , ” he said .
ocean very blue with the tide out and the water curling far out along the beach .
we were all packed now and ready to go .
they were not comfortable that way and as they got sleepier , they both leaned toward each other .
yours and mine .
he had once been a captain of hungarian hussars , and he had once captured a gold train in siberia
when he thought that he knew that he was not being clear-headed and he thought he should chew some more
while he was eating breakfast his sister brought in the mail .
all the systems of governments , the richness , the poverty , the martyrdom , the sacrifice and the venality
where is the kudu ?
but then everything is a sin .
a voice in the next room stopped singing and a girl in a blue apron came in through the door
it was going .
" " is zizi really a duke , too ?
noticing them by the heat-waves in the air above the leaves where the sun hit the metal .
" i could make it with my clothes on , " jack said .
" i got the car out to go to town .
“ils sont des sauvages , les boys , vous savez .
liberty , what we believed in , now the name of a macfadden publication .
i love more than any son of the great bitch alive , the colonel said , but not aloud .
don’t get nervous .
, picked a girl up and took her out to supper .
” “we’ve got to see it then .
they were going on to lanegresse to change for biarritz .
the two boats started off in the dark .
ate a breast of roast guinea hen and drank a couple of tin cups of half whisky and water .
he was the greatest , finest , whitest , most beautiful man that ever lived , steve ketchel , and
fun , you understand .
' ' may i come up to the bar in the garage while they are getting the car down ?
the referee grabbed walcott .
“i had to leave them .
best , and they certainly had had some wonderful times they certainly had .
” “that’s what i want you to be .
liz pushed him , she was so uncomfortable and cramped .
” “we ought to be able to hear it pretty well , ” mr .
his father picked the baby up and slapped it to make it breathe and handed it to the old woman
in all of his stock rather than send him to the ring to be killed .
“well , doc , ” he said , “that’s a nice lot of timber you’ve stolen .
that can be replaced .
outline of the palace where they turned and noting it , ' you ' re in the lee now ,
frazer suggested .
“ain’t nothing like that this side of miami .
' it will be swell , ' i said .
most of it’s here .
“i’ll watch myself , ” he said .
“why the hell can’t he stick around ?
there were always poppies in the wheat in the end of june and in july , and the mulberry trees
i walked around the harbor under the trees to the casino , and then up one of the cool streets
they are all different and they fly in different ways but the sensation is the same and the last one
he had forgotten the discipline of weight on your forward foot , keep your head down and swing .
" " we can go everywhere .
his head had been banged against the floor of the washroom and he was still unconscious but my father said
my memory is not exact about this part .
' how were the ducks ?
“i say it because it’s true , ” alice said .
he gets a little dull .
" " i ' m not going to see him after lunch until the fight .
town walking along with big white steers hauling the cart .
you could not hunt them against that unbelief .
down the middle and timber along the far side and all the lower edge .
i’ll go on hurting you .
or is it some sign of weather that i do not know ?
look where my delusion about the razor would take me .
" " what was it ?
“you want to give him a cigarette ?
this is not killing kudu .
still , i’ve seen enough of their damn terrorism .
” “where do you think we’ll get to tonight ?
shower .
the kitchen was dirty and sloppy , but all the doors and windows were tight shut .
both of you , ' p .
he had evidently been in the timber when we had seen the first bull , had run with him ,
to cast her off .
“what were you singing ?
around the grove of trees was a bare space .
riff .
“i won’t forget what you did for me though .
” “no , ” says jack , “i got the insomnia .
firmly planted , the bull came by his chest under the raised muleta .
we did not want to fire any shots where we were going except at rhino in order not to scare
johnson , ” eddy said to him .
so i ' ll take it .
braddocks , several people i did not know .
in a quick circle , breaking the smooth surface of the water , he disappeared .
" only sparrows .
" " il est catholique , " i said .
they are fifteen feet away and you are a young lieutenant on a patrol , ' i love you only
' ' listen , ' i said to pop .
meyers used to give me lunch in the morning and i’d be gone all day .
” “chicago , ” nick said .
don ' t you ?
they got a pool-room .
but that sounded pompous so he corrected it to when it is more necessary to fight than to be with
“going shooting ?
, they were lovely to see and , deeply moved by them , i gave the old man a good
“no , you won’t .
now lift high up and we’ll go over together in the wave .
the bolster between her legs ; big , fat , honest , clean , easy-going , very religious and never
somebody took his watch , too .
when he had finished his work with the muleta and was ready to kill , the crowd made him go
i carried the rod-case and the landing-nets slung over my back .
" nothing until the fifth .
they came back and said the bull had gone on down .
“you’ll sleep all right .
keep away from women and horses and , and—” he stopped “—eagles , billy .
were sold to men who rolled them up and put them away in their pockets .
” “maybe , ” jack says .
” “he killed this italian , ” the prisoner on the front seat said looking toward the detective .
you know me .
had the thicker neck .
" " all right , " said brett .
' ' dante was an execrable character .
” “captain , ” said mr .
surely he did , " insisted mrs .
" i saw them come up in the car .
of the bar .
there was a crowd all along the fence that led to the ring , and the outside balconies and the
ground and crossed with branches .
through the water .
nick lay on the bunk .
enrique went quickly to the back of the porch but there was no light there except that which shone on
” “fifty dollars , ” said mr .
, to complete an act of contrition .
' and by jesus christ we ' ve got a lot of them .
“damn , ” he said .
’ then when they filled the bases in the third game , you remember , it was too much for
paris was an awful big town after milan .
i would remember it somewhere , and afterward it would seem as though it had really happened to me .
after it was over we went out and were pressed tight in the crowd .
she liked it the way he walked over from the shop and often went to the kitchen door to watch
” “the royal ten dollar gold piece inn and emporium .
you look fourteen .
it was a good fight .
they were not intended to be used in the attack , and they sprawled along this line under the crest
" what ' s the bright boy ' s name down the counter ?
he had wet his hand before he touched the trout , so he would not disturb the delicate mucus that
but over now .
" there ' s some people in there that don ' t like me .
give me that card .
“so he thinks it’s all right .
” “about horses and eagles .
" i was acolyte , " the thin one said proudly .
” “takes ten to be an ace .
like a dam bursting .
" " you might take up social service .
it was up to him .
i put on a dressing-gown and went to the door .
service in _num_ and that same year he was sent to china , shanghai—he staid three years—and came home—he was
" i should have gotten some kek for him , " madame fontan said .
' ' i ' ve stopped , ' she said .
that should surely come at dusk .
find they cannot write , or the first time they cannot do anything else , or else they get frightened
you lose them the same way you lose a battalion ; by errors of judgment ; orders that are impossible
' want to go on a duck shoot down in the marshes at the mouth of the tagliamento ?
" i wish i had a stone for the knife , " the old man said after he had checked
the church on the hill , the one they call the hermit , is the objective .
pin curls .
you don ' t look very religious , jake .
i don’t want to work that close to him .
hundred yards of thirty-six thread .
" " i can ' t sleep .
i ' ll rest now while he goes out on the circle and then stand up and work on him
i can ' t slide .
' ' thank you , very much , ' the girl said .
" " you ought to dream , " bill said .
' ' that would be incest .
it’s like the dry law .
' ' i ' ll try very hard to be gentle , ' the colonel said .
he must have his mouth shut tight on the wire .
" " kiss me just once more before we get there .
” “what about the other one ?
“i will shoot the poor fellow , ” the artillery officer said .
” “afterwards .
wilson looked at them both .
he was shy , too .
“let’s see what you weigh , jack , ” freedman , walcott’s manager said .
“that was the left eye .
at the end of the swing he was facing the bull again and held the cape in the same position
two in the house , one in the stable .
" " a little .
“they’re savages .
” “you know that anyway .
' ' mind you only shoot the very biggest sort , ' pop said .
of my right foot that only served to wear out socks , when we jumped two reedbuck .
" " this one , no .
" which way are you boys going ?
' ' i know it .
i hated to leave france .
there were only three boats in sight now and they showed very low and far inshore .
" you ' re from kansas city , they tell me , " he said .
which is finished is still good .
" retana did not smile .
" " it ' s better for him than not sleeping , " hogan said .
the piave , where it all made sense .
but he did not know that nothing would ever be as good as that again .
the next day i worked around her all morning , changing the oil in her base and one thing and
" " i said something , mike .
“it might be better not to speak of it , ” said the cropped-headed , bristly-faced man who said he
" he was like a photographer arranging for a group picture .
“but i am a foreigner and it is your war and your problem .
” “i’m going to have ham and eggs and coffee and a big slice of raw onion , ” roger
“come on up to the house .
_num_ ' s .
” “sleep well ?
' love is love and fun is fun .
“see , it’s a boy , nick , ” he said .
past stores , filling stations and markets with cars with people going home from the city passing them steadily .
“they run a lot of cattle around here , ” roger said .
“that’s what they are—cochons .
“take it easy .
_the ladies ' home journal_ was one of the magazines received regularly at the officers ' s club in trieste
the raft rocked with the motion of the water .
he smiled , his face natural again .
“al , ” the voice said .
i wonder what started him so suddenly ?
the train left the station in marseilles and there was not only the switchyards and the factory smoke but ,
" he took a long drink of the beer .
there was the tank reserve , the tanks covered with branches chopped from olive trees .
this is about the last good country there is left .
" " he must be eighty years old .
he could thank his father for that .
they all ended the same .
in the dark it looked like some enormous pregnancy .
did he ever live in france ?
shifting in the wind .
people seemed to think it was rather ridiculous for krebs to be getting back so late , years after the
come on , let ' s go .
" in the crowd crossing the square i said : " how is it ?
you ' ll never be able to remember any conversations that way .
“mixing up in this ain’t going to get you anywhere , ” the cook said .
' i think you will find no one , outside of firenze , who has studied his life who would
fred stood there on the station platform and i watched the station , fred standing there , then walking away
the third roman soldier is sitting with his head down .
also i won ' t need to tell her for quite a long time .
” “where do you think you are ?
she ' s gone to bed .
' ' they ' re in the safe , ' the colonel said .
then i lashed the wrench to the grains pole again and i watched through the water glass and pounded on
not the show in general .
you get a shell in , shoot , but it is too far , or you were behind , and
" the concierge called .
big hemlock that had been struck by lightning the summer before and had fallen in a storm that autumn .
" " i believe it , " said the biggest one .
she was gone behind the lean-to .
up the track nick saw a fire .
“i’m all through .
i ' ll be damned if i ' ll turn that in .
" i just thought perhaps i was going to throw up .
it was a racket .
it was a good morning , wilson thought .
sometimes we came to a dead halt and had to get out and pull a log out of the way
brilliant people in detail .
" " pipe down , mike .
plateau and out into the fields of grain that blew in the wind on the plain on the way to
one came over and took my order .
” “they’re much further in this time of year .
” guy asked .
' who wouldn ' t .
“tell him to go away , nickie .
' pin me no pin curls , my beloved , ' he said to the portrait , ' and i
' better shoot him once to make sure , ' pop said .
we then sent johnny , the camera-man , into that room on some pretext .
i went around to the paddock to see the horses with my old man and you never saw such horses
' ' is the steak good ?
i know i ' m not .
you are having much better luck than you deserve .
to be high in the mountain that early in the morning .
the sable had been running in a bunch as they came out and any individual track was confused or obliterated
" it ' s making me bald .
" " hasn ' t she any at all with her ?
i ' ll say them later .
there are no villains , i presume , in a democracy .
we found nothing .
he don ' t like many people .
“you can start , ” he said .
" " no , " said the doctor .
“i only had this job a week .
the bill was as big around as a baseball bat and slanted up , and as he grabbed the bait
“god guard you and keep you .
you call him on thursday .
one morning we were all out on the road .
in the states before everything went on the bum there .
they all liked luz .
" if you were my boy i ' d take you out and gamble , " he said .
” this frightened the good lion very much because he could see her yellow eyes and her tail going up
he ' s at the mines .
" " that ' s a good idea .
" " i ' m going to sleep , " bill said .
now , he thought , i must think about the drag .
now coming toward the rear of the hotel , where the kitchen was , they crossed a plank bridge over
i gutted them and they’re wrapped in cheesecloth and they’ll be cool and fresh .
so i had m ' cola make the cuts for taking off the head skin and we would leave the
they weren ' t venetians no matter how well he wrote of it .
" i went to austin business college with wayne b .
i know it’s bad for you .
" when we were up in his room i never saw a better-looking kid .
it ' s too steep .
' and the roman was slapping me on the shoulder , then he had his toga up around his neck
a man of the world the blind man knew the sounds of all the different machines in the saloon .
water and then lay side by side on the cool , firm beach where the last inrush of the waves
finally the bull charged , the horse leaders ran for the barrera , the picador hit too far back ,
' what are we going to do with this goofy ?
if he is very dejected looking , you might whisper to him , " listen , mac .
but the thunder doesn’t impress us so much any more .
“listen , ” he said .
there is nothing cut that means anything .
” “thanks brother , ” came the voice of harry .
to the sun , but there was no run left in them .
" no , " said romero .
the old man pulled on him all that he could to bring him closer .
being given , it would reveal ailments and symptoms .
” the detective stood just to one side of the door .
i felt tired and pretty rotten .
" " good trout , all right , too .
besides i caught that on the dirty boat out from marseilles .
' so that was it .
i suppose it is some association of ideas that makes those dead places in a journey .
never was there anything to prepare him .
coming out while you were poised unsteadily on the icy , springy brush they made difficult shooting and i killed
he did not know how much stuff was smashed and wherever the nigger had not bled he himself had bled
” the young fellow asked me .
he looked older , more disreputable and tireder than ever and his get-up was obviously a disguise .
neglectful is when you do not brush one hundred strokes at night .
" when do you go back ?
" no , " the boy said .
heads as they galloped heads out ; the heads not moving .
it ' s too damned awful .
said he couldn ' t do it .
” “they are dirty .
the first time i ever saw it i thought the façade was ugly but i liked it now .
” “well , get along then .
behind them came all the procession , opening out , all striding in step , all the capes furled ,
he was a blond with wide shoulders and arms like a heavyweight .
“that’s all that i mean .
big two-hearted river part ii in the morning the sun was up and the tent was starting to get hot
sometimes the bottle is shaped art , sometimes economics , sometimes economic-religion .
is that where she is ?
" i see them together every day .
the tune was : " the bells are ringing for me and my gal .
” “good , ” said macomber .
in to weigh , i felt as proud of him as though it was the first race he’d ever placed
time you are out that , sooner or later , your luck will change and that you will get the
” “the signor does not take bananas .
" i do not know , " he said aloud .
we settled down in the blind and waited there until it was dark and a light rain began to fall
it is an ignorant attitude and the people who have it do not survive , but very few pleasanter things
' ' i ' m glad of that .
" " do you have bad luck with all games ?
' anything that i should be permitted to know ?
” “did you cry ?
" is an englishwoman here ?
they were grave-looking .
be on the heavily shaded game trail on the high bank above the stream .
“be careful you don’t fuck it up , ” his father had said to him and looked at him flatly
stomach .
” “is dying hard , daddy ?
knew where the salt-lick was .
help me , help me , enrique !
we ' re going fishing in spain .
of a bitch .
back of his left hand , each coin covered with the right hand .
“do you think we’ve given him time enough ?
" " i ' d rather not hear .
" " i am in love with her , " pinin said , " but i do not write her
' ' that ' s marvellous .
" good beer .
that’s the only way you can keep them from rusting on a boat .
“but it is a heinous crime .
brett moved close to me .
” “i’m having one .
he had done it too many times in his imagination .
they were all gone .
" what did you do , dad ?
he could talk french just like english and all those kind of guys knew him ’cause you can always tell
be definite .
” “i thought he shot you first and the russian after .
“it’s funny how fast you can think when it means that much money , ” jack says .
the plank nailed above the gunwale until he stood , looking down at the nigger , his right hand still
" give me the letter , " hogan said .
" so you think that ' s right ?
then he just watched the road .
gloomy little village , and started to climb again .
“carry you to hell , ” i said .
that men make their own faces after fifty .
" in a few minutes sister cecilia came into the room .
so very long .
drakes actually call better .
_num_ d roman soldier—you guys don’t know what i’m talking about .
finally the road after going parallel to the burnt hillside reached the top .
i got to like it , though , part of it , anyway , and say , it’s got the
we ought to get outdoors .
' ' you can ' t eat on that .
wheeler ?
nigger ' d just knocked local boy down .
“thank you a thousand times .
queried as to whether this was the guide whose name we had , the old man admitted he was not
just then it hit him as he had known it would since they had picked up the decoys .
” his voice sounded very strange .
” “she isn’t so cordial , is she ?
“do we look silly ?
i ought to go to harry ' s , probably , or some damn place .
” “naturally .
“i love you , daughter , ” he said .
" never does me any good .
' how is the lorry ?
you’re my girl now .
suddenly , four feet in the air .
" " you know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch .
" we went back and jack got dressed .
“i never saw him after the shooting started .
and across the hillside .
few times , blurred and i could not call them into my mind and finally they all blurred and all
the grass ; behind him again .
ahead of the bull .
don’t you ever lie to me no matter what and i won’t lie to you .
our horse’s name was gilford , he was irish bred and a nice , sweet jumper .
aren ' t we friends ?
sliced cucumbers , and two helpings of salad .
” he hit him pretty hard a couple of times more , and then the rod bent double and the
bambini business , if you understand what i mean .
we left bill ' s baggage at the station , and he bought a ticket to paris .
i would be very happy to nominate him if you think they would like to have him .
and while it goes on you can hear margaret , if you tune in right , singing the star spangled
chapter i everybody was drunk .
there was a wooshing snort and no movement , not a stir in the reeds .
" " you ' re not holding out on me ?
“it’s heavy , ” he said .
unless you want to take the big buick roadmaster , with the dynaflow drive .
jack stepped on the scales with a towel around him .
' ' i ' ll ask the _gran maestro_ , maybe he knows .
but we ' re having fun again and whatever the bad thing was is gone now .
“sometime’s it’s very hard to make the legs move , ” i said .
they had seen cedar waxwings so calm and gentle and distinguished moving in their lovely elegance with the magic wax
“where’s sam ?
but he kept on smoking his cigar .
will you send a note by the bus to tell us what to do to rejoin you all on wednesday
he only looked sad the same way i felt .
i ' ve known lots of people that have done it .
' did you cut in on his country ?
when he was a leader of irregular cavalry with the red army and held it all one winter when the
" aren ' t you running a lunch-counter ?
romero ' s face was very brown .
" the damn police kept arresting chaps that wanted to go and commit suicide with the bulls .
" i unscrewed the nozzle of the big wine-bottle and handed it around .
“where is fontan ?
" come on , galano , " the old man said .
that was why he noticed everything in such detail to keep it all straight so he would know just where
were diving and jumping .
' ' only if alvarito asks you .
packard but she loved him and never minded when he teased her .
" " outside of your personal appearance .
' ' i know some good ones about pound .
my christ , it ' s been a long time .
" i ' ve read it in the paper .
it could not be more than a mile away .
if they did not turn up on monday at the latest we would go on ahead up to burguete in
“here’s all the ones we missed , d .
never show your head in daylight , relieved himself in the exact place where he had determined , by triangulation
the dignity of the walk of the steel-hatted man ahead who no longer belonged to the club .
" " take off your hat .
' ' give me your hand first to hold .
when he first thought about him it was always the eyes .
i ran the steel tape around the curve of one horn , m ' cola holding it down .
" no , " he said .
when i had finished too quickly and the time did not go , i would fish the stream over again
i ' ve seen them now .
john was thinking about nick when he went out to the back counter where the two men were waiting for
" what the hell kind of place is this ?
it was a smooth-feeling ordinary pebble and he put it in his pocket and went inside the house and down
” slowly she got up and ran toward the car .
again and was at home .
tunic front .
" we heard her walking on the stairs to the cellar .
he woke with the jerk of his right fist coming up against his face and the line burning out through
abandoned it at pamplona .
” “are you sure ?
' ' if it is not un-maidenly i think so too .
" " i have just been called up for this war .
aren’t these good ?
be as bitter as you want .
it had cleared and there were no clouds on the mountains .
" he went over in a corner and sat down to read a book .
lines at and the steady good weather and of what they had seen .
i want you to do that every morning .
of them ; the times so long back when he had done the one thing , the only thing for
was about .
” “you never know .
" but i know many tricks and i have resolution .
that old dutchman claims there are some remarkable heads .
his hope and his confidence had never gone .
” “does that make much money ?
' ' will they all go ?
he said he felt fine .
a meeting , where only the accredited and trusted were present , and general walter bedell smith explained to all
it was a passion that had never slackened and he was very grateful to his father for bringing him to
you can drive and we can spell each other .
” “i cannot say absolutely because the glass in the helmet make distort a little .
i remember one time when i cook on ship—” “it will be pretty tough , ” i said .
” then waiting in the bed he heard her in the bath splashing and then drying herself and then she
i was tired all the way into my bones , my head felt cooked , and i was thirstier than
' ' it does not hurt .
i could hold on for a second to the edge of the port hole and i could see in and
” “i don’t know whether they use dope or not , ” my father said .
since the ant heap my heart had not been in it .
maybe that’s the solution .
“i cut it off , ” she said .
one was orange .
that ' s good .
but they drew on all the people from the towns and the farms behind when the visigoths overran them .
things must be done legally and in order .
wilson in the edge of the tall grass while the red-faced man worked the bolt on the short ugly rifle
" " ayee !
” they sat in the woodshed and they watched the two men sitting at the table on the screen porch
especially at san siro with that big green infield and the mountains way off and the fat wop starter with
the correct procedure , and one which should be taught all young officers at every small-arms course if i had
" she sipped at her glass .
the smell of a battlefield in hot weather one cannot recall .
monsieur has worked here for three years .
people at home think _mortadella_ is a sausage , he thought .
" " good , " montoya said .
gilch ?
perhaps it would be better to put it back under the seat , against the wall .
" one hundred and forty-three pounds , " the fat man who was weighing said .
with it .
' ' tell me just one .
the waitress watched him go .
“salud camarade , ” he said .
” we were both quiet and i listened to the silk-worms .
it must be the gait as well as the look of them and the size and the colour .
feel the rains coming , as they moved steadily north , as surely as though you watched them on a
” “how are your kids ?
" in the report to the commune she died of heart trouble .
had no confidence , coming back to eat alone , no one to whom he could talk , his wife
” johnson walked over with the wine list to the table where the three porters sat .
but he had a big pack load from the kitchen .
, dried-up edged shine of lake manyara rose-coloured at one end with a half million tiny dots that were flamingoes
he could never hope to have such a regiment , ever .
what kind of shoes have you ?
i do not know why they screamed at that time .
ninth baronet .
pedro chicote was the proprietor and he had one of those personalities that make a place .
robert cohn was once middleweight boxing champion of princeton .
amazing , isn ' t it ?
supplies .
well sir that boy of yours certainly surprised us all today .
the handsome job the undertaker had done on his father ' s face had not blurred in his mind and
and the wide , forward-pointing spread of his horns .
" she grinned and i saw why she made a point of not laughing .
“can’t you believe me , mother ?
i like any of it .
' don ' t talk .
“i hear we’re going across today , ” he said .
i said madame had packed them by mistake .
” “quite a few from time to time .
” “doctor going to cure me .
“i’m fine , ” he told the girl .
“i just heard them threshing around .
the palm was pink .
” “maybe .
“they can’t track us the way we’ve come and i don’t think they would notice tracks in this deep sand
truly i didn’t want her to send it to you .
noise clink in my ears but it wouldn ' t break and i had to come up .
i went out and watched them .
was some doubt in the minds of the police whether she should be allowed to proceed to lausanne and she
“the bigger they are , the more meat for the poor .
he profiled directly in front of the bull , drew the sword out of the folds of the muleta and
not the paris that he cared about .
“when i make a sum of money i gamble and when i gamble i lose .
“no , ” he said .
" " sam ' s gone out , " george said .
" " not so bad .
” “i don’t want you to have to carry the stuff too far .
" then if you hook something truly big we can come to your aid .
he had fallen .
” “you can interfere with this one , ” he looked at the cook .
in the kitchen was the boy who washed the dishes .
" " where did you learn your english ?
tell him either he must behave or get out .
they’re a filthy animal though .
the waitress pretended not to hear him .
the rest is just cheating .
“it sounds easy , doesn’t it ?
i look up and i point out to company what happens .
i got to thinking about this thing and i forgot .
" " what ' s the matter ?
we saw them coming a long way off .
" i ' m a little tight you know .
chapter _num_ one morning i went down to breakfast and the englishman , harris , was already at the table
she saw me notice it .
he was fairly happy , except that , like many people living in europe , he would rather have been
" " does he ?
but he ' s just so awful .
“you are supposed to be a writer .
all started some fine ones from there .
that was the bad part .
" where ' s edna ?
you know how i get when i worry .
i don ' t think it would be much of a nuisance to them .
he heard it unlock the door , heard the door pulled against the bolt , and then the lock being
we could see big flocks of geese spread over the grassy hummocks that rose above the marsh .
a rifle .
i said i was sorry i said it .
' ' he is , ' the colonel answered .
i have no cramps and i feel strong .
i’ll go home anyway if i’m a bother or a nuisance or an expense .
' ' thank you , ' the colonel said .
” she stopped again .
you can ' t make me listen .
it was noisy and crowded and i sat at a little table in one corner against the sandbagged window with
a horse-cab passed us .
she waved and smiled .
i need something , ” macomber’s wife said .
” doc fischer said .
" " he ' d be good , you know , " brett said .
why should i ?
“come on , drink along with me .
" she ' s getting a divorce and she ' s going to marry mike campbell .
“hold it , then .
" " oh , he takes bananas , " the lady said .
thick tongue out .
” and she did .
” “a little ham , ” he said .
the masterpieces the critics said they wrote .
' ' chai ?
the hill , flattening now , and the plain spreading , clumps of trees , and the bush flattening ,
bill was eating fruit when we came in and finishing a bottle of wine .
he fastened a hook on the end of the leader .
" look at that bunch of camels , " the tall waiter went on .
' ' what cheese ?
as soon as it had passed through the slit .
' ' yes , sir , ' said jackson .
then finally the pop of the rocket that meant the bulls had gotten through the people in the ring and
he mixed the batter and put the skillet on the fire , greasing it with the shortening which he spread
the cloth sign hung against the planks in the hot sun .
' ' six feet six , ' said andrea .
' b ' wana fisi chokes them with his naked hands .
” “you’d better give me that other drink , ” eddy said .
" i have no cramps , " he said .
stuck in the dirt , they had dug quite a little at the last ; stick bombs , helmets ,
' if you see one across there you have to go straight down to the bottom of the canyon .
” “oh , he’s a thinker , ” al said .
but you won’t be bored ?
we’ll be up on him anytime now .
' god knows where .
now they would have the run home together .
it said that if he did not make the payment by the following saturday his mother ' s grave would
a shotgun in the piazzo san marco .
it was late in the afternoon and the shadow from the trees was long and went out over the dam
tusks so tall and thick that no one could believe them even when they touched them and no one ,
we followed the tram-track into the centre of town .
to fulfil and through impossible conditions .
" " please listen , " doc fischer said .
i did not know whether they were there in migration or were following the locusts but , in the twilight
" always , " he said in english , and laughed .
but there was a spring by the road and they both drank at it .
’” “why must not a man marry ?
hadn ' t eaten for three days .
do you think you belong here among us ?
he now spoke his idea of french about half the time and if given an order perhaps half the time
“i fought in tripoli .
nick’s own education in those earlier matters had been acquired in the hemlock woods behind the indian camp .
they were both very hungry and the cakes were delicious with the butter melting on them and running down into
" " they have other men on the team .
' ' that ' s the only god-damn trouble with you , too .
” “for the better ?
i just don ' t want to see them .
“i’ll go to the bank in the morning , ” johnson said .
and the jock staggered over to one side of the track against the fence .
one day at auteuil , after a selling steeplechase , my old man bought in the winner for _num_ ,
his scuffed slippers were by the bed .
her own true love had just kicked off with the dysentery .
scrub oak and pines .
had never known of .
” “nothing , ” he said .
i drank a beer , standing in the doorway and getting the cool breath of wind from the street .
been used before ; but they were in good condition still and had the excellent sardines to give them scent
" let us rejoice in our blessings .
it was dark inside and at the back of the room three girls were sitting at a table with an
” “take it easy , ” the man said , kindly .
in our compartment were a man and his wife and their young son .
and then , even if you know it , it’s bad .
but when we started , he started to run after the car and i could hear him in the dark
they did not use the words that people always have used in speech , the words that survive in language
“and a good one , ” said the picador and walked out of the dining room , gray-jacketed , trimwaisted
opinion the french military hold of themselves .
and it would be more fun with two of us .
peduzzi leaned over and dug his flat , hard thumb and forefinger in and tangled the moistened leaders .
but his left hand had always been a traitor and would not do what he called on it to do
” “not for anything , ” she told him .
' ' nothing like .
the wanderobo wanted to go .
' we have books , ' he said .
of the snakes and specimens were exposed and had turned white--if you thought back that far , you remembered a
" up at the hotel jack took off his shoes and his coat and lay down for a while .
" " yes , " said the girl .
he carried his head low , but not too low .
the leader and hit him .
post from another .
in , after a shot or two .
the lashing on the oar butt .
" haven ' t we had a splendid party ?
” william campbell looked at him .
that was what frightened about that .
bill came down with a pair of heavy wool socks .
" il a tué un jack .
' ' oh please .
i judged camp to be straight down below us and about five miles to the north-west through the timber .
' ' it was the old battle-jacket .
“all that bastard cares about is trailing me , ” he said .
we dined at a restaurant in the bois .
i hoped so .
' what is there ?
only the pain of touching or jarring .
but after a while they asked permission to carry him out and lay him with the badly wounded .
let him ruin it .
" he had an awful time .
you mustn’t be a crook before you start .
tempt you ?
the fire flared up .
if you take him out of there you will have to carry him right back in .
there had been seven .
' ' poor old mama ?
" cohn turned to me .
it was very strong raw spirits and all it had was fire .
i mustn ' t try for the head .
puffs of cloud hung on the hillside after the rain and the trees dripped but we saw nothing .
“i’m going up to paris and sail from havre for the states .
anything , " guy said .
” “what about the pain ?
there was one with twenty-five englishwomen in it .
" oh , the dirty bastards !
“keep her out .
the water tasted like rotten eggs because these were mineral springs and nick and his sister used to drink from
that ' s why i don ' t want anything to happen to her .
was our bull and that he had picked up a cow and she had made the pace and kept him
“it would be fished out then .
“you might as well drink it , ” he said , “maybe it’ll make you feel better .
up .
' ' maybe , but i don ' t think so , ' said p .
man was dangerous .
we could try of course .
white as though they were snow-capped and the clouds that looked like high snow mountains above them .
' ' very wonderful and quite rare , ' the colonel said .
" he pointed the forceps at them .
the drake came down on the ice , just outside the perimeter of the blind and broke the ice as
i explained to them that i would be back .
they had just passed the place where he had killed the rattlesnake that winter driving through here with david’s mother
he brought the glass of water .
in a trench dug in snow , high in the mountains , wearing an alpine hat with an eagle feather
' ' why didn ' t you like him ?
he walked , grey-faced , to the concierge ' s desk and said , in italian , ' domenico ,
i’ll get on the telephone in the other room .
" i don ' t want to take a cure at all .
his horse’s ears quivered .
his mouth was too dry to speak but he could not reach for the water now .
' ' never .
he turned his head and then stood up .
lack that than work) .
clear , and the chutes opened up and they looked like great big beautiful morning glories opening up and she
the machines were new then and it was we who were to prove them .
” “i’ll match you .
believe me .
“nope , ” nick said .
drink up .
“i tell you , wemedge , i was worried while it was going on .
” the porter when we went to bed my father said i might as well sleep in the lower berth
“this is the first time i have been divorced .
" " my friend is a misogynist , " i said , " an old german misogynist .
" " how are you really ?
he is stand on his feet like this .
wherever i go to learn english .
“what’s the joke , wemedge ?
“it’s true , ” alice said .
, down and down , then steeply , impossibly , up , hearing the rustle of night things and the
" what ' s that ?
i have lost three battalions in my life and three women and now i have a fourth and loveliest and
” she did not care to discuss the subject .
“heil !
” “yes , signor maggiore .
' the _gran maestro_ brought the breakfast and the odour of it , although it did not spread through the
an engineer had planned it .
bill .
after it is light , he thought , i will work back to the forty-fathom bait and cut it away
cold water .
when he started to kill it was all in the same rush .
the liquor had all died out of him and left him alone .
smelled the sweated horses .
” “where do you think they went ?
ahead the river narrowed and went into a swamp .
, and tossed them over across the river .
come between them and their swamp with the car , macomber would have a good chance at them in the
he could tell a longer story even than carlos in cuba .
" " see , " said the count .
swimmers , hell , swimmers were slobs , nobody knew about the water but him , there was a fellow
in the cups by mistake .
you ' re called ' sliding billy .
miss portrait and i talked late and early and it made everything much easier .
a lion ; when he first sees his track , when he first hears him roar and when he first
he was asleep when the boy looked in the door in the morning .
but i drank the cognac and i used to try to figure out the different corrections on the compass when
it was a high leap and a dive forward and down .
” evans asked .
" i have terrific presentiments about things sometimes .
he was breathing slowly and heavily but when he would open his eyes his breathing would stop .
walked and scratched and with little bursts of running moved back toward their roosting trees at the end of their
” he saw molo behind her with the folding table and the other boy with the dishes .
i ' ve had such a hell of a time .
' ' it wasn ' t hard to say , ' the colonel said .
i ' d try to pull one down like this , he said , hearing the wings in the air
' ' i was only thinking of the face , ' the colonel said .
was no one there .
” the husband in the upper bunk rolled over against the wall .
she sat there with her back toward him .
and now he has jumped more than a dozen times and filled the sacks along his back with air and
i hope they can fix my arm .
once we saw three lesser kudu cows in an open place of broken bush .
' the roman had gone on steadily talking .
” “do you still have them whipped ?
' i don ' t really mind , daughter .
“there are the two curses of spain , the bulls and the priests .
does it damage you ?
strain on the nerves and one thing’n another .
' ' he ' s got the best buff , the best waterbuck , and the best lion , now
' ' that ' s all right .
" those are retana ' s boys .
it came with a noise like a bursted steam pipe combined with a ripping of canvas and with the burst
" " plenty of indians ' ll kill snakes to-night , i guess , " joe garner said .
nick tightened under the contact .
it is unhealthy .
there is only the buzzing .
' ' you savage , ' i said in swahili .
" funny , " brett said .
i did not take my own life seriously any more , any one else ' s life , yes ,
" he stopped and he did not want to look at the fish now .
manuel was worried .
dans le pissoir toute la chose comme ça .
there was an arm of the lake between the swamp and the hills .
“what was it you were going to do ?
" here she is , " mike said .
in combat than probably any weapon in the world .
” the man saw where the water was rippling smooth off the bank even when he could not see the
the church of frari there was no colonel .
it sounds as though you were practising your trade .
right and left the wart-hog , who had never moved , nor showed any fright at seeing us .
blue eyes and the long , loose-coupled body of a buffalo wolf said , ' my ancient and depraved colonel
” “go on , give us some beer .
she felt very small .
' ' me too , ' i said .
' ' we both ought to shave in the dark , ' the colonel told him and went out the
” “how do you know ?
francis macomber lay now , face down , not two yards from where the buffalo lay on his side and
michel in the warm june evening .
” “i have always worked , ” said the older waiter .
" that ' s a good name , " manuel said .
he put it to his shoulder , shut the wrong eye , and pulled hard on the trigger , and
in back was the garage , the chicken coop and the second-growth timber like a hedge against the woods behind
” “honest to god ?
“wouldn’t talk rot if i were you .
described as “epiphanies .
” he looked over at them .
you with the crow wing hair and the break-heart face ?
he lay down and was sick and we missed him .
' ' god save us , ' said pop .
there isn’t any killing nor ever going to be any .
“we’re after them next , aren’t we ?
macomber had not thought how the lion felt as he got out of the car .
be strong .
notre dame des champs in the courtyard with the sawmill (_and the sudden whine of the saw , the smell
" " who was his old girl ?
” helen had taken compton aside and was speaking to him .
high , heavy , timbered hills that were big enough to be mountains .
iron soap kettles , and you asked grandfather if you could have them to play with , and he said
' we can pick up the other one any time .
there were the tracks of three big bull kudu in the moist bank beyond the lick where they had come
when we came in they looked up .
holy mary , mother of god , pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death .
the gate and one of them was counting a bunch of mutuel tickets and he said , “well , butler
he did not want to come home .
alone , he did not know the somali proverb that says a brave man is always frightened three times by
il ne faut pas manger à l ' hôtel ou au restaurant .
“everything’s got its place .
it was a good bull , a big bull , and with horns , and it turned and recharged easily
i rang again and a maid with a sullen face opened the door .
talking .
back in the car , the oryx head wrapped in a burlap sack , the meat tied inside the mudguards
“there’s always that danger .
it will be good for us all right .
he’s got money .
david came close enough to see him cut off the moon again and to smell the sour oldness but he
' ' i don ' t know anything about glass .
she embraced guy .
' would that be about right , sir ?
she was as big as three women .
" i ought to stay , " he said .
we have credit here .
said it would be wicked .
" let ' s go down to the station .
his neck and back and the small of his back rested as he stretched .
it was made heavy to lift back in the air and come forward flat and heavy and straight to make
her hair was gray and stiffly oiled in scallops around her face .
" they are something , " brett said .
he tested the pull of the line and the bend of the willow .
to hit him at all i had to use him all as a target .
” peduzzi wanted them all three to walk down the street of cortina together .
on himself steadily .
he was sorry for them all , even the great trunk backs that were as long as the skiff and
“should we say a hundred dollars apiece ?
they had stopped shelling the house and it was quiet now .
' ' i know i tell them to you .
“well , i’m going to bed myself , ” i said .
i came astern on her .
the evening papers were not yet out so i bought three party tracts from an old woman .
” you can get a good meal at the perla for twenty-five cents .
sickness .
" how he could touch the guitar .
bill gorton arrived , put up a couple of days at the flat and went off to vienna .
' the sedge moved and the dog came out with a mallard drake in his jaws .
i went down once more and i cracked the glass , only cracked it , and when i came up
' do you love me still ?
we can amuse ourselves in those cities at the end of the day .
beating time on bill ' s back .
, like the head of all the general staffs in the world , his glasses blinking in the sun like
unless the honourable pacciardi stops them on the line of the piave , which is a river which no longer
” “did you leave the dove cage unlocked ?
but you ' ve got to realize---- " " i realize , " the girl said .
from behind his ears .
“listen , ” doc fischer said and he told the boy certain things .
but we did not see him and now , in the big heat of noon , we made three long
then he was on his knees and then he rose slowly to his feet .
hebrew wine-seller—i got it right here .
” “then i could stop and pray at the tomb of my grandfather on the way to the ranch .
” baldy stared at him .
i say , doesn’t leche mean milk ?
" " i can ' t see it , " the critic said .
" " i do , though , " mike said .
it is well lighted .
” the girl looked at the bead curtain .
brett sat between mike and me at the barrera , and bill and cohn went up above .
he knew that if they kept on this road they would come , shortly , to the turn that he
” “they tell me the tanks aren’t any good any more , ” a flyer said .
but almost everything bad that had ever happened to him had happened when he was drinking absinthe ; those bad
' better to get it out .
read the evening papers and have his aperitif .
put it in the top left-hand pocket of his tunic .
but i would much rather not have any hydromatic drive .
' whichever one we decide to use we will park in the garage alongside the muehlebach .
he rang the bell and the chambermaid came and knocked at the door .
the soil was red and eroded and seemed to be blowing away , and camp was pitched in a high
the others are dead .
flares .
it was all sandy pine country full of heather .
” “oh , yes , i am .
" we ' ll drink a bottle together .
she sat down on the bed .
" come on up to the house .
“the use of the razor , ” he said , “is an art not alone known to the barbering profession
” “did you know him ?
' ' maybe you ' ll have a good year .
' ' they both lived to be old men but they did not get any wiser as they got older
" i went out and told the woman what a rum punch was and how to make it .
" i was getting brandy and soda and glasses .
” “i should send you to battalion headquarters .
which was supposed to put you out of business , and then , when it lifted , you checked your
“he’s just george washington’s age .
fisi , the hyena , hermaphroditic , self-eating devourer of the dead , trailer of calving cows , ham-stringer ,
she never ate much .
in the ash dust were the tracks of the buffalo as they came down and into the thick jungle of
he smelled strong but old and sour and when he was past david saw that the left tusk was so
' two of them , ' i said .
" soldiering ?
it was a big meal at the hotel .
” “it isn’t bullshit .
only the old waiters know him and the old waiters do not denounce .
" chaps kept coming out and waving their shirts .
” guy asked me .
” “you’ll see it as soon as the column gets up and we fit in and go down that road
in long fingers across the plain , now scattering as the shadow came toward them , they were tiny now
not realize the thought .
' ' how old is the daughter ?
what about them , professional soldier ?
tell us what happened , really .
elliot disintegrated very quickly under sea sickness , travelling at night , and getting up too early in the morning
romero spoke to the bull and tapped one of his feet .
going to have that horse-cab stuffed for you for christmas .
when we were seated in the car ready to start , the girl came out and stood in the door
a country , finally , erodes and the dust blows away , the people all die and none of them
the eggs fried with their faces up .
cold when he came out , and put his ring clothes and his bathrobe in a bag .
i was getting down the bags .
“i’m sorry , ” jack says .
he ' s my sort of thing .
he got up and went over to the bar .
” “no kill him .
” “so do i .
i told him only three .
" about what time do you think i ' m going to die ?
i never saw a city boy yet that was worth a damn .
something wrong with it .
" you can ' t hit him here in the hotel .
i won’t have it .
we could see their shadows on the tent fly , then they came around to the front of the tent
“is it good with water ?
then he went on , not smiling , “and you don’t really want—” the major paused .
” “don’t ask me .
bull .
" i suppose you think somebody shot him in the back too ?
his tail went up and he charged .
i know you ' re tired to-night .
" " i am not married , " cayetano said .
” he asked the girl .
the wife liked him .
" don ' t know why i get so nervy in church , " brett said .
below the cape was a flat stretch beside the sea .
it strengthened him , and yet he did it for her , too .
in front of the machine the major used were three photographs of hands like his that were completely restored .
i don’t know why i’m doing it .
she hadn’t written anything about it and when i met her at lausanne i didn’t know anything about it .
” “no , here .
” “not out of this , ” manuel said .
“you told him that once , ” i said .
" why didn ' t you spend the night ?
were responsible for should all have left , but the one who served the table of the two priests had
well , this shooting had made him look about ten years younger .
“my boy is political commissar of the machine-gun company of his battalion .
but it is damned careless .
?
” juma cooked the birds spitted on a stick over the coals of a very small fire .
he looked up and down the road and up at the sky where the big high afternoon clouds were riding
” “je veux aller tout seul , ” andré said shrilly .
there can be an omelet with truffles dug by pigs of distinction .
and the rocks all solid , but with nothing jutting , and no bulges , and all of a sudden
' ' but you ' re not a writer .
say what you can truly do each day and then do it .
“if you love horses—” “yes , you said that .
pinin walked across the main room of the hut toward the major’s door .
' ' but was there nothing noble or truly happy about it ?
" " the hell with luck , " the boy said .
“why not have me do it ?
all contours are for our five sons and for your head to rest on .
who left him , a letter telling her how he had never been able to kill it .
' ' i knew there must be a lesson in it , sir , ' the driver said .
' turn her around and take that road towards treviso .
the propeller churned up the water and the boat pulled against the dock making the water swirl through the spiles
' ' daughter .
in the first row of seats , slightly bored , leaning forward to write on the cement wall in front
this kzar is a great big yellow horse that looks like just nothing but run .
" bring up half a dozen bottles of beer and a bottle of fundador , " mike told her .
" " how can you say that ?
" all right , " he said , and handed back the bag .
go !
i was hot and very thirsty .
a line of lombardy poplars ran from the house to the dock .
should i tell him ?
each shout meant a charge by some bull into the crowd .
" say , " he said , " go up and see cohn .
no chai ?
it’s not worth moving .
walk .
would you like to have me write out the address ?
man was ever alone on the sea .
if i kept on reading that feeling would pass .
you ' ve lost touch with the soil .
" " you never know .
“you’re going out , sir ?
but i am only a girl from this town that loves you .
beyond , above the grassy ridges and slopes , were heavily forested hills .
solly freedman came over to our comer while jack is bandaging his hands and john is over in walcott’s corner
” “did you ever meet him ?
down the channel , the man picked up the sacked packages of liquor with his good arm and dropped them
they could kill their lonesomeness in that woman , or pool it with hers , or make something with her
“i know , ” nick said .
they ' ll be shooting with him all right .
that ' s the worst thing you can say to insult a man in spanish .
the shacks the hurricane blew down and that they use for a clubhouse on sundays when they come out to
” “i don’t know , ” said my father .
i was not gay .
“here take a key .
do you have politics in the army ?
” “schnapps , ” the peasant said .
it was like that going up the stairs in the hotel .
' .
" he stood up from the table his face white , and stood there white and angry behind the little
” “you figure it out , ” i said .
then i lay back in the skiff and held my hand under my nose to stop it and i lay
” “if they would simply see one and refuse .
outside the curtained window was the summer heat of madrid .
harris had just finished dinner .
de la contrescarpe , then turned onto the cobbles of the rue mouffetard .
but for the thirst , water .
greek cavalry herded along the procession .
it’s really perfect .
he had experienced anguish and sorrow .
he steered inside of the glow and he thought that now , soon , he must hit the edge of
talk about the good days .
go away for a while .
" fish , " the old man said .
“and you ?
" say , wasn ' t that harris nice ?
" " that ' s a good idea , " i said .
“it’s fine up there .
but why do you always wake so early ?
" outside the ring , after the bull-fight was over , you could not move in the crowd .
his hair was pomaded and shining and he was very smartly dressed and clean-cut looking .
jack just moved around a little to loosen up .
it mixed slowly with the whisky .
” “are there other ways to attack ?
“but the water’s not as fine .
we could not afford to waste film and you had to be awfully careful of the cameras .
one can always tell .
it was the bull that had sprinted out and killed the man in the morning running .
how you suppose he smashed his windshield ?
) then i’ll be straight with myself and if that six-ply bastard nicholson can sell two out of the four
“it’s the first time i’ve ever seen it .
well , ” blindy said without any rancor , “that put a stop to my fighting days .
he sat in the corner of the seat with his ticket in his hat-band and looked out of the window
” “no , ” jack said .
pretty strong medicine .
don ' t you forget it , harris .
' ' cheer him up , will you ?
it’s your risk .
' ' i have done things without .
' ' the tide is quite high with this wind , ' the girl said .
just let her try it .
maybe we’ll never see him again .
" " but , darling , i have to see you .
liz was sitting in the kitchen next to the stove pretending to read a book and thinking about jim .
" " better for you .
" i took it in the first show , the very first show , and it only made me very
then he goes away to work in the oilfields and brings home this indienne that weighs right then one hundred
off a lot of s .
" bill sat down , opened up his bag , laid a big trout on the grass .
' ' wherever you like .
“no , wait , go below and open up all the ports to get the stink out and bring me
two male and four female .
“ain’t there something left in that crock , jimmy ?
" " they ' re not the real south americans .
health to you ?
” i looked at him , tall and bleary and shaky , and i didn’t say anything .
the enduring hemingway the nick adams stories islands in the stream the fifth column and four stories of the spanish
to think about .
the boy did not go down .
i wanted to take him fishing but i was too timid to ask him .
there never was a man like that .
“does it do it to you ?
the colonel found the walk long , although it was a very short one and when the waiter , who
” “they’re lovely with flit .
' maybe the bull ' s there .
that ' s all the hope we have .
marjorie did not reel in until the boat touched the shore .
through the empty streets with the cold wind and all the shops closed , trying to keep near the street
' ' i wasn ' t with you and i was not asleep .
the one in command shrugged his shoulders .
" it was beginning to get dark .
splatters down through a steep descent to the meadow below .
really been consummated until the husband has committed suicide .
sometimes bill went along .
” “how old will i be when i get a shotgun and can hunt by myself ?
” “you want to ?
i hadn ' t heard him come up , because of the noise from the dam .
" you must not joke me like that .
brett stood by the bar .
george reached down for a towel and wiped the counter .
“i know , mummy , ” he said .
a man beside me leaned over toward brett .
, and in public .
" you understand ?
but big friend .
“will you have some , mister adolph francis ?
" " i guess he ' s all right , " i said .
can i kiss you while you’re making supper ?
he cleaned the knife on his right combat boot and then inserted a brown ten thousand lira note in the
" " no money .
" " i ain ' t slept for a week , " jack says .
' me plenty simba , ' i said .
then ahead we saw a big fire and as we came up and passed , i made out a lorry
don ' t be bitter , boy , he said to himself .
je connais beaucoup de rats d ' eau .
ever be .
the small ruby on the crown of the turban .
" " north , " said nick .
" " because that explains it to you .
george can ' t tell it to her .
“what about it ?
' no , ' the _gran maestro_ assured them , still bowing with the lobster .
” “daytimes , ” he said .
" " i don ' t know anything about her that i could write .
' but why not have a drink ?
" listen .
it was dark now as it becomes dark quickly after the sun sets in september .
" that ' s so .
but the lumbermen might never come for them because a few logs were not worth the price of a crew
inside , the sunlight shone through the empty glasses on the table .
but the world they were in was not the world he was in .
“how do you like being an interne ?
my mother had gone inside the house .
” william campbell shut his eyes and took a deep breath .
he had talked himself out of too many things .
“how much is a quarter litre ?
steel lock of his resistance , and the triangular steel point of the pic ripped in the bull ' s
where it lay .
the things that happened could only have happened during a fiesta .
go to see a man .
it trolled pretty heavy but it made a big splash in the wake .
' droop had removed his fez and held it in his hand .
he looked at her back .
" il y a des gens très gentils , très sensibles , qui viennent aussi , " he said .
” bugs offered from the skillet .
they would look on and on after every one else ' s eyes in the world would have stopped looking
when he went through all that barbering .
" the girl stood up and walked to the end of the station .
birth ?
the data on my compatriot .
she ' s looking after this romero lad .
and the look of the tree trunks showing black through the early morning mist , as the car made its
when the birds were cleaned he smoothed their feathers and wrapped them in ferns and put them in the flour
do you suppose that is light exercise ?
ici il y a trop de churches .
it pulled off with a jerk and the big gun made a rocking explosion out of which i came ,
down the road through the trees he could see the white of the bean house on its piles over the
” “the way i get .
he’s gone out the window , ” said the brakeman .
as you want .
" there ' s some pie too , " he said .
don ' t you think that is very marvellous ?
perhaps he regained , as the result of his enthusiasm and interest , a childlike capacity to record details almost
" tell him i think writing is lousy , " bill said .
i settled back .
” “what were you going to drive them in with ?
he hadn ' t shaved and he was wearing an old sweater .
juma picked it up and looked at the sun .
excellently .
” “it’s a gift , ” bill said .
' he ' s not a man who drinks labels either .
this will be fine .
' ' we ' re on a week-end now .
it was locked .
” “tanks .
“you won’t miss them so much you won’t be able to love me will you ?
into some shade and visited the military cemetery .
" " don ' t forget it , yet , " brett said .
" oh , " said the second porter .
" cohn stood there .
” “listen , hank , what are you trying to promote me ?
" " do they ever gore the steers ?
an awful beast .
the setting of the sun is a difficult time for all fish .
" let ' s translate brett to the hotel .
' give me a small _carpano punto e mezzo_ , ' the _gran maestro_ said to the bar-tender , who
“this is my pal bugs , ” ad said .
” “it’s funny all right , with a war right down the end of the street so you can walk
but at the time if they won’t go they won’t go .
just before the puerta del sol he turned into a café .
it was the maid who looked after their room .
he let that go by and said to the girl , “you won’t come ?
' put that in your pocket , jackson , and act on it if necessary .
bad luck to your mother .
" " i just asked you , " said hogan .
relaxed in his sorrow for him .
" " do you want to ?
she was crying with her head in her hands .
' ' now , ' she said .
and like the persevering traveller , mungo park , knew that there was something else , that always absent something
” “thank you , ” helena said .
“i’ll go get some , ” he said .
' ' i thought you thought about my hand .
' it ' s no good , ' m ' cola whispered .
' she ' s a big cow , ' pop said .
” “what does he do ?
' ' that ' s better .
a very short story one hot evening in padua they carried him up onto the roof and he could look
' all right , ' i said .
saw he looked ill .
i ' m on the water .
' four times .
" we went on .
but i won’t have fights .
" " you won ' t touch me .
his temper has to go bad before he can write .
still alive and appreciates it .
" don ' t let ' s talk .
the sexton stopped shovelling and straightened his back .
“your feet are in good shape .
” blindy had come up opposite us and we smelled him and turned around .
hers i mean .
' and that pitted man with the caricature face ?
we certainly would .
this is all awfully amusing , but it ' s not too pleasant .
and no place to go here .
” “please sit down , ” harris said .
i don ' t think i hurt him any .
maybe they weren’t even steering .
it got dark and we could feel the country hot and sandy and dark outside of the window , and
he liked to look at them , though .
there was a little froth on the beer in the bottles , not much because it was very cold .
it was raining hard now , and i pulled my hat low down over my eyes to keep my glasses
“it isn’t fun any more not any of it .
to come in .
it kept on .
you count and i’ll count up to sixty .
' ' an excellent situation report , ' the colonel said .
" here he comes .
it took a long time and finally it would be light , and then you could go to sleep ,
' ' i better try to tell you something pretty good , ' the colonel said .
lady lay awake and waited for a wreck .
' ' tell him not to move them .
_num_ d soldier—what become of his gang ?
" as we passed .
probably in the saturday evening post .
i will provide everything for tomorrow .
they ' re plenty up above , too .
after he no longer meant what he said , his lies were more successful with women than when he had
" " i ' m praying that it will , " sister cecilia said .
" he poured out another drink .
' once we thought we heard you shoot .
why did i have to make a one-night stand ?
the horses in bull-fighting .
i lay back against the tree and watched the wind bringing the clouds and drank the beer slowly out of
there’s things about him i don’t like either .
i hailed a horse-cab and the driver pulled up at the curb .
“you’re pretty funny , ” the guard said .
” i gave him a five-dollar bill of the chink’s .
got his eye on me .
a waiter went for a taxi .
this is where those writers are mistaken who write books called generals die in bed , because this general died
tomorrow i will eat the dolphin .
one horse kneed himself up and the jock had hold of the bridle and mounted and went slamming on after
shadows on the other side of the stream .
i’m dying now .
” asked the adjutant .
forgive me .
with some firmness and he closed it in surprise .
” “his niece .
i’ll get them to count this time now .
the two indians stood waiting .
” “doesn’t it mean anything to you ?
the light is very good and also , now , there are shadows of the leaves .
” “should we get tight ?
the next day pedro romero did not fight .
he felt happy .
manosduros was zurito’s nickname .
" he shook hands and turned around to the back seat again .
' ' good white wine is good with a mixed grill , at your age , ' the colonel told
" " i ' m a goner .
, chief , ” said eddy .
” “yes , ” said george , “that’s the way it is .
the next day there was no bull-fight scheduled .
“will you cut some bread out of that bag , mister adams ?
' ' very many .
" he shut his eyes , and in place of the man with the beard who looked at him over
“wheah are the tanks ?
he was on the offensive again .
we’ll go .
“all right , nigger .
' ' do you want me to shut the windows ?
there are gentlemen who are divorced but not many .
but she was gone now , for good and for ever ; cauterized ; exorcized and with the eleven copies
arms through the shoulder straps .
one end of this line is made fast to a kilometer marking , called a borne , or to a
they were such a nice pattern .
“i cannot stand it , ” said maria .
he was a chink all right , but he talked like an englishman and he was dressed in a white
" my father only gave me three shells a day because he said that would teach me to hunt and
“let us go to the battalion .
” “you don’t have to get sore .
packard , he told nick adams , would get worried about the salvation of his immortal soul after she had
" they look like white elephants , " she said .
“will you shut your mouth and get us out of here ?
you ' re thirty-four .
you can tell me any sort of crap you want because it’s interesting and i’m grown up enough to sort
jack put the left in his face and walcott took it , came in under it and started working on
in that you run for arlington , if they return the body .
' ' i ' ll write it if you want .
” “eat some of the hard chocolate and i’ll get some fresh water from the spring .
he certainly wasn’t much of a business man .
for _num_ caballos , and caused the death of antonio garcia , novillero , april _num_ , _num_ .
your saviour .
there would be a priest if he was going to die .
is a many fascist here ?
i have a good life but i must write because if i do not write a certain amount i do
he could not hear them move .
” “i’ll remember it , ” i said .
a kidder gets to be an awful thing around a camp if his stuff goes sort of sour .
she couldn’t bear to have him touch her .
, like the first snow in a blizzard , that comes from nowhere , and he knew the locusts were
double v in black paint with drippings of paint down the wall .
“are you worried about it ?
“but you do not know this , ” he went on angrily .
looking back , mongrel dog-smart in the face ; whack from the little mannlicher and then the horrid circle starting
wide , forward-pointing spread of his horns .
' ' say it again .
' " " this wine is too good for toast-drinking , my dear .
had not been thinking about macomber except to note that he was rather windy , suddenly felt as though he
title .
but i don’t like it to be on a basis of stories .
one with a slice of raw onion .
“we want to get to the hotel and get a doctor , ” john says .
“he’ll stay all night , ” he said to his colleague .
because they opened the dresses there in the postoffice to appraise them and they were always very simple-looking and with
’ “i been away a long time , ” i said .
made the sign of the cross , and , rising on his toes , sighted along the dipping blade of
you do not mind if i am camped near ?
” he put his hand into the cage and the bird flew against the back , fluttering against the withes
we do not have them .
he made it stronger that way , and did it for himself , too , as well as for her
let ' s get out of here .
" we ate the sandwiches and drank the chablis and watched the country out of the window .
“he was out here all right .
i put them in salt in the box .
with her mouth closed she was a rather pretty girl .
he started down to the stream , holding his rod , the bottle of grasshoppers hung from his neck by
but there was nothing to be done now .
” “out to get a breath of air .
i ' m too old for that .
she was standing looking away , the thread in her folded hands .
“come on , suzy .
" the sooner we get on the stream the better .
romero went on .
there would be no big trout in the shallows this time of day .
" " he was a great fighter , " the lumberjack said .
the surface was bubbling slowly to porousness .
" " i was smiling at you and jake with your secrets .
” “god make it get dark quick , ” she said .
” “i love it .
" told him i was in love with you .
across the room the old man had folded his paper .
let us utilize the product of the vine .
” “i like it when you say daughter .
' i am sorry they did not fly better .
as they walked three abreast the wife caught his breath across the wind .
already she can’t have another baby .
jack , ” john said and handed him the glass and the bottle .
" no , thanks , " i said .
as he stood , broadside to us , head up , seeming to be listening .
” “you aren’t going to die .
" in the hotel on the stairs we met montoya .
i knew you were buried .
" it isn ' t bad here , " she said .
the mohammedans and all religions were a joke .
i couldn ' t tell which was the biggest .
but something had happened between us .
they came up to the car and surrounded it , all laughing and smiling and talking .
" " i need that money for something , " he said .
i nodded to him and raised my drink and we both sipped at the drinks .
” “why nothing .
and the coffee spilled all over everything .
" did he have a jam with soldier ?
“then you won’t do it ?
one was a bare-assed piece of hill that you had to cross to get into grosshau .
” he stood up .
' ' you haven ' t heard it yet , ' i said .
from the forest so you could not get above it without sending your scent on ahead of you on the
' ' you may find some tracks .
even if it were wrong to say them he must say them .
then i saw frankie coming in the door with someone behind him .
” alice looked at her and then at us and her face lost that hurt look and she smiled and
l .
adams looked at it and at the water rising and then flowing clear in its gravel bed beside the road
” “there is no thirst like the thirst of battle .
" why do they call them muletas ?
” “i’m going to get out of this town , ” nick said .
there were many pieces of shell , and shrapnel balls were scattered in the rubble .
his face had not changed and i had said nothing but i was full of contempt and there had been
it was very hot and we stopped under some trees beside a dam that crossed the river .
we were lucky weren’t we ?
" she asked a waiter and pointed to the long backbone of the great fish that was now just garbage
part of the sun also rises and the first third of to have and have not in madrid .
i was looking at my father and motioning .
you can ' t let him get away with that .
" we might go up on the hill , " brett said .
’ “‘ja , i loved her , ’ olz said .
in other cars in other countries .
quickly had covered all the sky , i thought that if we were going to join the outfit , and
' now i ' ll complete the monument , ' he said to no one but the dead , and
they will leave , just as it comes , of their own accord .
then in english , ' too bloody tired .
the window was open about halfway .
' ' it was not very interesting , ' the colonel said .
” “you talk like a book again , ” she said angrily .
a beating every day , you know , one way or another .
' the second was as good as the first .
i put back the slab of wood , and hoped nobody would find the wine .
they were right in front of us .
do i have to tell this story ?
finally back to the hotel for supper .
he should have paid every week anyway .
" you see the magazine , of course ?
try something else .
‘by my troth , i care not ; a man can die but once ; we owe god a death
” “don’t care , ” said trudy .
” “no , ” mr .
i wanted a kitty .
” “that man is a bootlegger , isn’t he ?
" listen , " mr .
they were as unjust as dante ' s but he drew them .
” he took off his pack and put it back into the timber and his sister leaned the rifle on
on arms , and behind the ears .
“when we saw him we all crowded around and said , ‘hello , paco .
" " she ' s not .
the bull would not charge .
they must have taken it for the initials or slogan of some holland-american revolutionary organization perhaps resembling the f .
” the collection is named for hemingway’s home in san francisco de paula , cuba .
“i suppose that i rate that for the rest of my life now .
“a comrade with a blanket tied around his shoulders in the form of a bandoleer ?
it was nice to see a great writer in our time .
, low roofs , and all white-plastered .
' ' well , there ' s the fiat garage where we leave the car , ' the colonel said
“there’s two wardens coming in that’s after nickie .
” “you don’t need to , ” she said .
” “he’ll get you anything you need .
haircut and a shampoo , and something put on his hair afterward to make it stay down .
" where ' s sam ?
” “listen , that’s enough , ” he said .
“you seen this walcott ?
had to postpone the treatment .
i never had it at night .
, where we held .
made jokes .
“worst one can do is kill you .
down the corridor mr .
golden beaches and the white beaches , so white they hurt your eyes , and the high capes and the
newspaper .
" if eddie gilby ever comes at night and even speaks to dorothy you know what i ' d do
she did not knock .
but when we got inside the café and sat down , there were the three of them waiting for us
there !
they ' re getting much better .
' ' that ' s awfully complicated .
nick pulled hard on one oar so the boat would turn and the bait spinning far behind would pass where
“i suppose it’s the thing to do , ” macomber agreed .
damp letters .
i do not care who kills who .
” “when did it happen ?
' ' i love you and it is cold and hard .
the two men relieved each other tracking on the hour and the one who was in second place looked back
i remember undressing , putting on a bathrobe , and standing out on the balcony .
he lay still and death was not there .
it was funny there weren’t any sharks though .
it wasn’t any good diving unless you had a big hammer or something heavy enough to do good .
” “i could put paregoric in the bottle .
his face was sweaty and he folded the razor and put it in his pocket .
i can’t do it .
what’s in her heart god knows , wilson thought .
the _gran maestro_ was gone and the colonel looked at the girl and then at the grand canal outside the
" " does that make much money ?
outgoing tide .
“it’s going to make a pretty big pack , nickie .
dark , silky annoyance , that she can hardly remember to comb , except that her governess taught her .
” “what were they that were gone , ” the girl asked .
glass , but i bled so i had to wash out the water glass .
it was very good .
it recounts splendid imaginary amorous adventures of a perfect english gentleman in an intensely romantic land , the scenery of
" mike stood shakily and leaned against the table .
the train stopped .
nobody speaks to jack .
" a friend of my brother ' s came home that way from mons .
" then you won ' t do it ?
i wish he ' d sleep and i could sleep and dream about the lions , he thought .
' ' yes , daughter , ' the colonel said .
try and get a little sleep .
it would not do to expose it to people who would not understand .
but it was still too early for that .
man carrying a suitcase came up to the car and asked us to take him in to spezia .
the florida prairie and ahead the road stretched straight and heatwelted across what had once been the everglades .
breaking point since he had hooked the fish and he felt the harshness as he leaned back to pull and
' ' their housekeepers talk among themselves .
“we’ve got to get the hell out to alcalá , ” the flyer said .
' please don ' t move , ' the girl said .
maybe they don ' t even remember .
“you’re talking to the united states postmaster , ” mr .
” i handed him the package .
he was not sure that there were any great moments .
some time before daylight something took one of the baits that were behind him .
do you remember that time we touched hands behind the tree ?
that was all he had gotten out of it .
' ' it ' s a jolly good story , but i wish i hadn ' t read it before
" i thought he was going to be sick .
the sun was terrific and as it was necessary to track with heads bent down and stooping , in spite
" all right , " the gypsy said .
" i can ' t do it , " para said .
finally i was certain we were above them and that they must be ahead of us , and past where
' ' when did they leave the man watching the kudu ?
" " all right , if that ' s the way you feel about it , " i said .
down below the narrow street was empty .
” “do you think the man was shocked ?
he and the bar-tender had a joke about this because the honourable pacciardi was minister of defence in the italian
bravest get killed quickest , a big part of chicote’s old customers are now dead .
but in the end , it was not a failure .
everything else is left to your discretion .
” ahead of us the man in the steel hat was still walking up the street .
and a bare clay butte .
' ' it was a pretty good old river , ' the colonel said .
“we have the other one .
" said mike .
but they say people get tired of them .
patria ?
' god damn them .
he went down the hill toward the creek and when he had come almost to the bank he stopped and
” “he’s got plenty .
” “i understand .
or maybe he just deliquesced .
' ' should we talk about how well he shoots ?
it bowed with the pull .
still looking at the little end of hair that was left he turned the razor in his hand and flicked
yes you are , he told himself .
then that log house was burned down and all the guns that had been on deer foot racks above the
” and he answered , “oh , i’m still drinking their whisky , ” and you knew everything had gone
“you’re down fine , jack , ” freedman says .
perhaps i had set up too close but you cannot ever be too close if you have fire power and
you lost that whole outfit by carelessness .
buy a london paper and a bottle of evian water .
spoil , and they were working at it very delicately and carefully in the firelight .
we can always come back .
sculptured into peaks and hollows until they crossed , and hills sloped down and then another plain , hot now
nickie , can we stay here always ?
tell me to-morrow .
it was a very long and even more lucky shot that broke a hind leg .
gone out of sight , the grass suddenly was high and over our heads and every one slowed down .
he looked back .
sea and he said to the nigger , “where the hell are we ?
was be there .
i want to talk with you .
as we came alongside , kamau , the driver , put the lights on .
" " i don ' t know , " the girl said .
he felt of his knee .
difference .
“there’s a fellow in there that’s killed a man , ” the detective said .
my mouth was still dry .
” “i hear most of what goes on .
don’t miss it .
he taught his people to shoot , really , which is a rare ability in continental troops , and to
jump the bull and get a snap at him in the brush .
did i say i had a third one ?
" equally , " he said .
“please , daughter , ” he said .
never been daunted .
they turned up the gap as a tank came whirring and clanking down and moved to one side to let
” “the other day , ” madame fontan said , “there was a little french girl here with her mother
" look how he knows how to use his horns , " i said .
i need it for my education .
' he says there ' s another rhino in there , ' pop said .
at every good pair of cow horns , garrick said , ' bull , b ' wana .
“you’re going to have things to repent , boy , ” mr .
antennae that were for knowing what rather stupid eyes could not tell him .
' how many people fought in your family ?
' ettore , two montgomerys , super montgomerys , with garlic olives , not the big ones , and please
bill and the wine-bottle basque were having a conversation .
i hope you get one twice as big .
' to-morrow .
then he was up and i hit him again and he took it and was in the bunch .
" " it don ' t make no difference where it was , " joe said without turning his head
you made a beauty .
' i never felt more of a four-letter man , ' he said .
while he waited for the coffee to boil , he opened a small can of apricots .
nick stepped out and walked into the firelight .
" a meal in spezia we came into spezia looking for a place to eat .
" he was trying to swagger it off .
told him i knew too many people in cannes .
“fix your eyes on the uniform .
" " don ' t you like paris ?
he remembered there were nine because joe garner , driving along in the dusk , pulled up the horses ,
' ' she was an ambitious woman and i was away too much .
he kept on talking in above normal tones and i looked up ' shut up ' in the dictionary while
nothing would ever make me see it for curiosity or to make money writing about it .
“no , nickie .
“they are so big and lovely .
he came up to the table and sat down in one of the wicker chairs .
' ' chap that wrote " but before i go , george moore , here ' s a last long
he straightened it over his knee and gestured with it to the crowd .
you have to be good now in every way until you say good-bye .
zurito , leaning on the barrera , spoke rapidly to the gypsy , who trotted out toward manuel with a
three loads , and then , one at a time , sprinted across the fire-swept corner of the paseo rosales
" i had not learned my grammar , and he said i was a stupid impossible disgrace , and he
“right here was where pa ran over the skunk .
of the dancing and drinking society of tafalla .
up-to-date edition of the short stories of ernest hemingway .
pop was puzzled why the rhino were all gone .
we’re good for three days .
my wife cuts it out for me and sends it to me .
” “plenty of indians’ll kill snakes tonight , i guess , ” joe garner said .
join them and selecting suitable weapons and other equipment for the trip .
" the concierge , before she became a concierge , had owned a drink-selling concession at the paris race-courses .
do you know anything about cars ?
there was a light in the concierge ' s room and i knocked on the door and she gave me
, and saw it , there was a deep pool and a long straight stretch and the water so cold
pop slept quietly too , you could see his soul was close in his body .
he did not like to remember how the career girl slept , yet he did .
anyway , i guess it wouldn’t have been any good , anyway , because looking back on it i remember
" he ' s all right .
“goddamned mossbacks , ” she said .
” “henry must be going good .
pebble broke the back of one and the bird began to jerk and toss with its wings thumping , another
thermometer went down to forty below zero .
we washed up and jack said we better go out and get something to eat .
' i ' m the one who calls her daughter .
" " that ' s the dinner , " george explained .
and we could see the collars now and faces were clear then clearer .
" " you don ' t have to go .
these were just ordinary hoppers , but all a sooty black in color .
he could see it was more than a fad , though .
' if there are heavies the lesson ought to say a mile , ' the driver said .
" what the hell do you argue with this kid for ?
i definitely had the braggies , on beer , too .
” his father did not draw a bird from the number two trap for the next three rounds .
“you’re going to be all right , ” he told the negro .
“trouble after trouble .
the taste was a part of the way i felt about skiing .
but he did not look very human either .
i ' m learning how to do it , he thought .
' " ' why did you do that ?
he looked across at them and smiled , his wolf smile that was only with the mouth .
' ettore , that character with the inspiring face and the nice looking woman with him doesn ' t live
it was afterwards .
" it isn ' t right , " manuel said .
“stand a little further along the bar .
brett was gone , i was not bothered by cohn ' s troubles , i rather enjoyed not having to
then you get one .
“are you russians ?
i’d go ahead of him when we hit the road and i could run pretty good and i’d look around
’ “big hugalug” “feels better , ” she said .
" " a hell of a lot he cares , " the tall waiter said .
“there’s blood coming out under the door .
he went to america on a boat from genoa .
ham and eggs and drank coffee with condensed cream in it .
" it isn ' t ready yet .
head down , swing and speed .
the man went on to explain the interlocking interests of these three and roger listened happily .
burning his tongue .
the bar didn ' t move .
the stretch of ground from the edge of the town to the bull-ring was muddy .
and swelling smooth against the resistance of the log-driven piles of the bridge .
to the north he heard the sound of breaking ice from the other boats .
the adjutant looked up at him as he walked awkwardly across the room and out the door .
that’s all they’d need to make it perfect .
they had that attitude that makes brothers , that unexpressed but instant and complete acceptance that you must be masai
directly below us was the callejon , the passageway between the stands and the red fence of the barrera .
" " what would you like , sir ?
named largo caballero , ” said a short man with thick glasses who was sitting at the table when we
, one shot ahead , caught a man in the running crowd in the back and lifted him in the
the bull-ring servants and the jingling mules .
there were only four batteries down there , when there should have been forty , and they were firing only
” “you remember better all the time .
" asked the barman .
a track near it .
, ' good , b ' wana !
” “look at yourself once more in the mirror .
“i cannot resign myself .
“what would you like , sir ?
right up to the guard .
i’ve got his gloves off and he’s holding himself in down there with both hands .
not to lift to touch and hold , they danced and sang through the dark around the fire and to
“we better go back .
long slope toward the road and the village , the two mountains in sight now , and it almost dark
and crouching and holding the big line with his right hand and arm , he pulled the dolphin in with
” “what about ?
” “where does he come from ?
then one hit him in the face , his bloody face looking toward the crowd .
" remember something about a prize-fight .
, springfield magazine watching the sable making heavy weather of it crossing the watercourse .
then you get there in the evening and there are the tracks .
his wife ?
" what is mashing ?
there is jack britton .
so , now , they had founded the order of brusadelli ; noble , military and religious , and there
" i guess it isn ' t any damn use .
keep an eye out .
i really think she meant them .
" there ' ll just be another row .
i know also about my wife--completely .
zurito patted him with his left hand .
but sometimes he cannot escape from hearing .
up in front of chicote’s and eight men got out of it .
” the nigger tried to move to reach a sack , then groaned and lay back .
” “i’m sorry you didn’t get to fly to zanzibar , ” he said .
say it was as freely discussed and clearly understood as though we were a cavalry patrol all speaking the same
the bull watched him , not fixed now , hunting him , but waiting to get close enough so he
“you’re fatter , james .
that ' s easy in this town .
“over to the indian camp .
but we were poorer than that .
in the flat pool beside the stream tadpoles spotted the sand .
, lowered them down into the water .
the hungarian had stayed behind to replay the new discs .
he may not have killed that italian .
i haven’t smoked .
” she was pretty terrible looking now i had stopped looking around and was looking at our table ; really
should i keep it in the storeroom or have it sent to your room ?
" georgette opened her bag , made a few passes at her face as she looked in the little mirror
nick pulled hard and the trout was off .
' ' christ , daughter , if you knew how hard i am trying not to be .
' you want to go after him ?
but he kept climbing , grading up around the hill , and he was travelling fast .
i even understand logistics which is not difficult .
so , since he could not fight , he fell in love with her and he paid no attention to
” george asked them .
“i’m only lecturing .
hit that bull .
" but don ' t you kill him .
the little man smiled at us .
' ' i work at it in the evenings , with the things you sent me .
david belasco .
to pot .
' ' very sure .
i ' ve never become one .
that is your own affair .
i was watching the two men in the leather coats .
“don’t you listen to what those bums said , joe .
' daughter , ' he said .
that’s eleven-twenty .
but i’d like things to be efficient and used as intelligently as possible .
" " he ' s coming now , " manuel said .
the time going north with andy they had not come through new orleans .
but using cocaine or morphine or heroin doesn’t make people talk the way they talked .
one of them nodded and smiled .
the decadent period that he would only have to be in the ring .
dew from the grass ; with the breeze starting and the country like an abandoned new england orchard to walk
we had to get some zebra hides that we had promised friends at home and it needed time for the
and she would have climbed up in the damned tumbril with you too .
' where did you get him ?
he brought in the bottle and poured a liqueur-glass full .
quite a lot of the boys were there .
it’s supposed to be bad form to ask us not to talk though .
he was damned nasty .
that look like the picture of lindbergh crossing the atlantic when they sail off .
then he stroked his head and held his hand and felt his pulse .
rockets were going up in the square .
" " where are your friends ?
” “marvellous , ” she said .
straight escape road that crossed in front of us and led up a hill , i said to red ,
john said .
but it went off all right , and pedro romero shook hands with every one and he and the critic
" " i wanted to try this new drink .
the cool evening .
the sanded arena under the arc-lights , the cuadrillas opening out behind , the picadors riding after , behind came
" " i thought mariajuana was the opium of the poor , " frazer said .
marjorie unpacked the basket of supper .
before he went he shook me by the hand and clapped me on the back again .
" the tall waiter said .
and something to eat .
it was getting dark .
i was all dried up inside like the dust in the house .
" brett came up to the bar .
“and thou ?
he was very good at it .
manuel was facing the bull again , the muleta held low and to the left .
" " wait .
“i guess he’s a better guy than walpole .
then the colonel asked , ' when do i get the portrait ?
from side to side .
' what do we do , pop ?
great many women in washington .
we came up to the place where the rhinos and the buff had come out of the reeds and i
i wish i could see him only once to know what i have against me .
this sudden life and panic all made background for the one i wanted , now trotting , three-quartering away ,
“us conchs ought to stick together when we’re in trouble .
” “will i ever live with them ?
he had rigged his harpoon long before and its coil of light rope was in a round basket and the
own house and the brightness of the lake in the moonlight then he was looking at the road .
" " what do you like to do ?
i’m full .
i had been wrong before , i remembered .
' open it up , ' he said .
" " imagine a young fellow like you not to sleep .
sure you know them .
" " so long , " said mr .
i’ve wanted it so .
" " he didn ' t want to drink with me , " said the sexton .
were on the cardboard boxes that held shoes , winter overshoes , wool socks , mittens , caps and sweaters
" " tell us right off .
" he ' s off .
” “not that well .
' ' i don ' t understand that at all .
when it got daylight eddy woke up .
in crowded tenement or comfortable home , and all with a healthy undercurrent of humor .
" like a wedding , " said the handler .
' so , he got out of bed , favouring his bad leg , which hurt him always .
' ' when you come back another time we must take a safari to study the natives .
" ah , yes , " the major said .
his head was on one side and he had a narrow , foolish , and depraved-looking face .
“there’s always more to it than we know about , ” nick said .
' oh , lord , may they not see it !
" the drummer shouted : " you can ' t two time-- " " it ' s all gone .
the other whores didn’t smile .
i am so sorry to be late .
” “do you have bad luck with all games ?
“never believe any of that about a scythe and a skull , ” he told her .
i don ' t know these ones you mentioned just now , so i don ' t include them in
but it cannot derive from or resemble a previous classic .
i dove deep once , swimming down to the bottom .
” “i think that if i had a good look both ways down the beach and there was no one
“j .
' that ' s why he had the gun cocked .
own clothes for twenty years now from the same maison de couture in the rue saint honoré .
smooth benches back of dark , wine-stained tables were along each side of the rooms .
" " i can ' t stop it happening , " the boy said .
' ' _ciao_ , alvarito , and thank you very much .
mind you , you’ll be scared too , plenty of times .
' ' do you love her more than me ?
we can get more .
all of it .
know it .
my father came back in the car from helping them with the sergeant .
and down and flapped the stiff fingers , and said : " and will i too play football , captain-doctor
liz liked jim very much .
to leave your gun and shooting gear in the trunk , sir ?
” “i’ll love it .
maybe he just trusted me .
he spoke in spanish , making many mistakes in the language .
but you ' d think they might have told from the way they must move .
so did wine .
they always thought of everyone else in the family as the others .
’ what you say we drink some more this fascist drink ?
please .
" " yes , " said the american lady .
' ask them if they would like to meet b ' wana hop-toad , the inventor of the hoptoads and
how big is your biggest one ?
everyone knows you don’t care anything about it yourself and i had every right to think you knew the facts
" his father sat watching nick eat the pie .
he looked up at the light on the ceiling and he was completely desperate at the remembrance of his loss
as the heat builds in the afternoons , spectacular thunderstorms that relieve for a while the humid heat , chubascos
" " i didn ' t ask you to insult her .
he was a more miserable character than any that i know and as mean .
' ' until he dies , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
took my bird-shooting coat .
” later she said , “they didn’t plan things right for me to have two breasts and you only one
” “who ever fishes it ?
” “eat that other egg .
" " you can have the squirrel .
" " well , they thought it was better to have it absorb , and that ' s what i
he stood there and i looked at him .
” the man called the doctor asked captain willie .
at ten o ' clock the breeze , which had come up in the east , began to shift around
" it ' s a sort of jota .
“now is it sight or is it scent that brings them like that ?
' what do they make there , sir ?
he didn’t know the environs of this town though and he knew he was stupid about it .
on the wood .
there was no answer .
i didn’t know there were kids like that .
it was really very hot and the accordion music was pleasant in the hot night .
plodded along , all tired .
you want trudy again ?
” and he had put a newspaper on her lap and she had tucked the bird’s bloodied head under his
liquor makes you feel like i’ll feel in an hour .
they stacked the skis against the side of the inn and slapped the snow off each other’s trousers , stamped
' many have attempted it but very few have succeeded .
' ' how do you lose a regiment ?
him up the stairway , and then laid him down .
” we paid the bill and stood up .
nick looked down the river at the trout rising .
" i went out too far .
there were patches on the elbows .
he swung the hook on which the two worms curled out over the water and dropped it gently in so
" " thirty-five pesetas .
of the palings .
but i would like to be checked out more thoroughly .
" " i don ' t lie to you .
sleeping on the screen porch of the house that stood in the shade of the trees above the lake was
“you’re here with your greatest friend .
' chapter xxxviii they ate lunch at the gritti and the girl had unwrapped the small ebony negro ' s
' kayti turned away in fire-lit slanting smile .
” “it must , ” she said .
' we tried to take pictures but there was only the little box camera and the shutter stuck , and
” “listen to it rain , ” he said .
" " you ought to .
fontan he’s going to have the wine .
" what have you for dessert ?
over that , and get me to run with him in the forenoon in the hot sun .
' and i said : ' how should i know ?
then a steep fall of timber that ran to the blue hills we had seen to the westward beyond the
but i was damned if i was going home broke and starve a summer in that town .
" this is a comfortable café , " he said .
" " that ' s why you ' re a bankrupt , isn ' t it ?
he opened the valpolicella which had been uncorked , and then re-corked , carefully , precisely and lovingly and poured
i heard the _whonk_ of the bullet and , from his trot , he seemed to explode forward .
circulated among them at night and stolen their whiskey why shouldn’t i go the whole way , especially if i
we paid for the beers , we matched and i think cohn paid , and went up to the hotel
' s feet .
and you are not a predator .
” “don’t you shoot craps ?
but , say , it is funny that a big town like paris wouldn’t have a galleria , isn’t it
' ' what about time ?
those are men as we are .
” “you buy them , sell at the hotel , ” mrs .
all the time now liz was thinking about jim gilmore .
outside the tent the hyena made the same strange noise that had awakened her .
he did not move but his eye was alive and looked at david .
there was no time to write renata a note .
smooth and handsome .
timber .
' we will do it all in the cold .
i’ll make some more .
business afterwards .
it was too many .
let’s have another one and then go up to your place and get a bath .
no one believes this ; but it is true .
” “if you call me doc once again .
' give me another compliment , mr .
s- _num_ wants you to button up and use plenty of artillery .
' if there ' s a good chance we ' ll stay .
half the camp was strung out across the hills waving and yelling .
thank you , sir .
sun , under a tree beside the road .
" " glad to meet you , " i said .
" get up .
the gut is flat , he said without uttering it .
even if he’s got a wrong point of view he’s better off .
all , of certain action to come , action in which you had something to do , in which you
but we came to ask if we might have the vélos .
” “a dollar .
sister carrying the .
i guess she wanted to look after him and keep him from doing anything bad .
' chapter xxxix the hall porter had telephoned , under the direction of the concierge , and it was the
" you said it then .
" he went out .
” “of course when we hunt it’s too cold for butterflies .
, for the good of the order .
the doctor went out on the porch .
jack hadn ' t drunk anything since the one drink .
" there , my dear .
he felt a reaction against deep wading with the water deepening up under his armpits , to hook big trout
" " a bottle of sportsman , " johnson said to the waitress .
" they ask me .
” george said , coming down to the table from the wall .
she hadn’t talked much last night .
move with a foot safari to where there was supposed to be water in a stream that came down out
when he looked up there was the bull up and looking at him .
i could not understand why the vehicle had not been blown wide open or overturned .
he dipped a half a cup of water out of the small pail he had brought from the spring and
" " no , i have to sail on the _num_ th .
i took the trout ashore , washed them in the cold , smoothly heavy water above the dam , and
the south slope of timber creek in wyoming .
porter , ” mr .
call him off , jake .
” “wipe your face off , ” said the sergeant .
" " i guess you are all right .
" " oh , don ' t stand up and act as though you were going to hit me .
the boat began to move slowly off toward the north-west .
i can describe the scene very well .
" " they come from biarritz , " mike said , " they come to see the last day of
bugs stood up .
he had stayed so close that the old man was afraid he would cut the line with his tail which
only it’s bad for me .
grass huts projecting above a heavy thorn fence .
" " he ain ' t got no money to get a divorce .
after all , i had no business taking him where i could not call the shot and it was a
she was afloat in the boat on the water with the moonlight on it .
“but i’m not going to waste them .
” “what are you going to do ?
” “between chicago and detroit .
“thank you , ” cayetano said .
lots of them .
” “now you’ve made me feel like a fool .
claude and onie were white and red had a twitch in the muscle of his cheek .
" " i ' ve kept them out of four fights , " edna said .
john asked , “what are you after this kid for ?
nor did anyone in the car think of it .
springfield .
” “you’re being wonderful .
“yes , comrade .
the wind was good .
” krebs looked at the bacon fat hardening on his plate .
” “you walk so that it breaks my heart .
she did not come for a long time .
' the girl asked , suddenly .
gullies .
they came for him in a car and the game had already started .
" smoke ?
' where do we go ?
" if you love horses---- " " yes , you said that .
it was a lie and they both knew it .
" like to take a walk , jerry ?
come on , tell me .
” retana’s man leaned forward and knocked three times on the barrera .
" " nothing , " i said .
then he got up and unhooked the door of the cage and opened it .
easy range while you try to pump a wet shell in .
morning in the hospital ; and at six o ' clock you could get the morning revellers in minneapolis .
” “come on” he said .
you ' ve got a young party .
the binnacle light .
there were high cumulus clouds and enough cirrus above them so that the old man knew the breeze would last
hope he’s a shootable cat .
" " he ' s going to get well but he ' s paralyzed .
” “i thought maybe you would .
’ “so just like i say come others .
" " listen , " the clean-cut young man said .
” “well , ” said george , “you better not think about it .
they waved their arms and shouted that the buffalo had come out of the reeds and gone past them and
" they ' re simply stupid , " edna said .
" how old do you think i am ?
" poor old phil , " she said .
“fortunately she did not see it from too close .
also they know it is you and it is i .
i sat down with my back against the shallow trench , my shoulders and the back of my head against
“like mr .
that was it all right .
" who ' s fighting ?
they had cut away all his shirt .
the battler nick stood up .
” “twelve hundred dollars , captain , is not to be despised at present .
perhaps as you went along you did learn something .
' ' bloody anecdotes , ' pop said .
' ' you can ' t do that because the shoot is on sunday .
" the old man looked from his glass across the square , then over at the waiters .
they carried him across the ring to the infirmary , running with him across the sand , standing blocked at
' it goes like this : _num_ red s- _num_ : white jumped off in time .
old jake , the human punching-bag .
fuentes stood still , leaning back , the banderillas pointing forward .
it was a big red sail , raked sharply down from the peak , and it moved slowly behind the
' not me .
i dropped two that thumped hard when they fell and as they lay , wings beating , abdullah cut their
' elephants , ' i said .
“pull up my sweater , ” he said .
para , ” he said .
ago tadada you said that i was rather nice to know tadada with feathers on , with feathers off ,
have been insulted by an ignorant tank man who has called me a rummy fake santa claus .
they did , too , strangely enough .
room for women .
then they coagulated again and the treacherous duck on the ice started to talk to them .
" " you ' ll see .
readers will note the reuse of names subsequently given to other characters in the final version of islands in the
' ' you should , please , to give me pleasure .
" " eighteen eleven , sir .
my old man started out through the crowd and i followed him over to the jock’s dressing room back in
' sleep ?
“things look good , ” the man behind the counter said .
good-night , gentlemen .
“that’s the weight of the line .
you couldn’t tell what they were .
cut him loose .
that did not necessarily mean that he would jump .
" " you could have come over ten years ago , if you ' d wanted to , " the
" i did not want to climb another flight of stairs .
once he nudged her in the ribs .
it that way .
and i ' ll do it and then everything will be fine .
no one may open the safe until the assistant manager , or the concierge , arrives .
the town , then along the dusty road , turning up the side road and leaving the car beside the
' ' then nothing else matters .
" " you are beside yourself .
they ' ve put it back to five-twenty .
turned over in the market , the brown side not showing , and looking thirty hours dead , was shouting
“we’ll do it in the dining room .
" eat it so that the point of the hook goes into your heart and kills you , he thought
i went on up the stairs carrying my phantom suitcase .
” the man called al said .
” “i love it too .
' what towns would you take ?
nick took his fly rod out of the leather rod-case , jointed it , and shoved the rod-case back into
anyway they shelled the house fast for about a minute .
“you better go see ole andreson .
mixed ways of writing she had been taught at various schools .
“je veux aller à la chasse moi-même , ” andré said in his high , little boy’s voice .
” “yes , ” frazer said .
, had offered to show us the positions the poles had just captured and , coming from under the lee
manamouki !
but how many of them have we killed in my time ?
but it was no good now .
they were glad to see us .
” then i told them where to put the two vehicles and where to set up shop and sent onèsime
he had destroyed his talent by not using it , by betrayals of himself and what he believed in ,
" maybe not to you , " said doctor wilcox .
" " i come here for coffee after dinner .
he had only spent , actually , aside from the dinner , seven francs for a bottle of wine and
make it so they could not lose it .
“but they were awfully close then .
' you ' ll wish you had never heard of breakfast .
it you love him , it is not a sin to kill him .
the crowd waved .
frazer liked to see her and to hear her talk , but the mail , supposedly coming from a different
line of the jaw .
the garrison bight .
they were a long way away on the jutting ridge of one of the steep hillsides on the far side
after breakfast we were out on the porch again .
that’ll fix you up right .
“ho !
manuel flopped the cape ; there he comes ; he side-stepped and swung in another veronica .
there ' s nothing wrong with that .
the fight with cohn had not touched his spirit but his face had been smashed and his body hurt .
of dust moved out from the ambulances and blew away in the wind .
" " the ocean is very big and a skiff is small and hard to see , " the old
it ' s just business .
“don’t you say it .
” the waiter stood there , holding the bottle on one hip .
“all right , ” i said .
some of the people in the line were sleeping .
out into the clean early morning smell of the ocean .
' ' i could teach you .
it certainly would make some conchs happy .
better have a drink .
and making a very careful stalk .
the girl brought the drinks and the peasant drank the schnapps .
' ' i believe we could .
he ' s mad about me , i tell you .
“the state contracts them out to the turpentine and lumber camps .
“you be careful won’t you .
very good ' , and i told kamau to go on .
” she made the drinks in the cups putting in handfuls of the finely chipped ice , the whisky and
” “packard’s a fine man .
" " i must work " the waitress said .
” “this is a bigger town .
” “you’re an old joker , harry , ” he said .
“be careful of my sheet , ” william campbell said .
_num_ solid from his pocket and fitted the nose into the hole in the bone of the forehead .
” “that will be fun , ” he said .
” he said when he brought it .
i will eat it all and then i will be ready .
please and please again .
' ' don ' t you know i want you to die with the grace of a happy death ?
he started to get some things out of the pack very carefully and his sister smiled in her sleep .
[_the three roman soldiers go out the door into the street .
” “comment ?
she was his best sister .
almost none are killed ; but many are relieved .
hills of burnt timber .
i figured he was pretty drunk .
then he leaned forward on the table and went to sleep .
" " she must have been just a kid then .
” “straight toward the door of the air-conditioned bar .
then he started to fold the blanket .
“tu veux battre ?
we had more wire strung than there are ---- in texas .
fifty pesetas .
' ' are you bad ?
liz and mrs .
” “fought , shit , ” marcel said .
“i do not refuse to shake hands .
” “he was an old client and a good client .
m ' cola and i ahead , the other following , we went across the long heat haze of the
then you crush the wild strawberries into the cup and wash the sawdust off a piece of ice from the
into them .
" " where are you going yourself ?
you can ' t just take to that stuff , billy .
“it won’t be all right .
can ' t you see we ' re all having a good time here ?
so the colonel fired at him twice .
also you have divisional artillery and a battalion of tanks and many spare parts .
“he is stand up taller than i am and he is look me right in the eye .
" " i hope we won ' t live somewhere so that i can never go to pray at your
all hindu traders are very fat and delicious to a lion .
other poplars ran along the point .
“some of us have seen him in the hospital .
i wish he would go home .
were following him shouting , and pulling at his clothes .
” “maybe that’s what mcgraw wants him for , ” nick suggested .
m ' cola was an old man asleep , without history and without mystery .
' t sleep .
" " just as you wish , " he said .
“no , ” said the porter .
i wonder what those old boys are doing now ?
' ' what did you find out ?
and you , my dear .
" " you don ' t think jack ' s in any shape , do you ?
with stuff coming in from france they ought to be able to build up in the basque country and beat
” “i guess so , ” said nick .
someone grabbed him and held him .
you look extraordinarily well , yourself .
too ?
' i ' m a ---- .
i can go up to the house to-morrow morning .
" " very nice , " i said .
nick basted them and then turned them and basted them again .
” heads up , swinging with the music , their right arms swinging free , they stepped out , crossing
" it is a strong full-blooded fish , " he thought .
then he rested against the bow .
across on the other side , were broken valleys that sloped steeply down into the canyon .
that men like that should die in failures in a foreign country ?
he touched one of her small breasts with his lips gently .
old man with the graflex , garrick with the movie camera , and the wanderobo-masai with a spear and bow
he’s going to jump anyway .
he , very probably , saw it as quickly as any man who was civilized and had to read and
" i got something fine to tell you .
ever since i’d seen the chink and taken the money i’d been worrying about the business .
the camp .
that was the way robert cohn was about all of paris .
droop found a fresh rhino track , too , in the mud .
" " ride you , doctor , on the day , the very anniversary , of our saviour ' s
' i love you and i know whatever that means .
we ' ve been here nearly a week .
he was only in a hurry .
all colds and grippes and it was good for the eyes .
as we were going along through the broken sunlight and shadow , the floor of the forest smooth and springy
' you are in a fixed position , portrait , ' he said .
" " yes , my dear .
he met him , covered him and pulled as he swung as far back as he could swing the gun
avanti .
" muy buenos , " i said .
that was one of my father’s favorites .
” he went back into the other room for the light treatment and the massage .
” “off the through freight ?
' he looked and saw the profile and the wonder early morning colour and her chest upstanding in the black
the gypsy smiled , showing his teeth .
' ' like this ?
then i saw the black back , the wide-swept , point-lifted horns and then the quick-moving , climbing rush of
" " and the head , " he said , tapping his forehead .
but i wanted to see the other .
“all this beyond was hemlock forest , ” nick said .
i ' ll get you one to-night .
seen the lesser kudu leave the salt when he heard the lorry noise while we were in the blind .
“i know it , ” marjorie said happily .
" " you bring us .
" " stopped at the crillon .
" you got a lot of luck .
are you attached to the regiment ?
“cut it out , baldy , ” a flyer said .
he did not like kansas city .
he never wants anyone to carry anything .
borrowed lipstick , ed is a lice .
” “they pinch .
” “at the corner .
" " oh , go to hell .
“well , ” says jack , “you better go back to town .
they picked her clean .
" " you are hateful .
but d ' annunzio , truly , was only making heroic gestures with the other things .
' they had a hell of a nice consul here in _num_ .
george went out , pulled the little thing in the box and came back in the room .
quit being bitter .
come ashore again for the rest of the day .
' ' go to harry ' s before lunch too .
” pinin stood still beside the bunk .
' ' six .
see !
you come tonight .
us healthy bastards shall inherit the earth .
" " he ' s probably waiting just outside the door now .
held in the north and the shadows from where a light went on .
ever bolts .
" i respect those who have faith even though they are ignorant , " the thin one said .
he was sorry when the magazine became too expensive and he had to give it up .
' ' i believe you .
were both asleep and i got back the sevastopol book and read in ' the cossacks ' again .
then he dreamed that he was in the village on his bed and there was a norther and he was
seven cows .
" " how do you mean ?
he wore slagged trousers and lumbermen’s rubbers and a mackinaw shirt like the others , but he had no cap
what would you say at breakfast ?
now i don’t know whether it’s safe to take her the trout .
the breeze high in the tops and the cool light that came in patches , and billy said : “you
' ' i don ' t need to purge , ' he said .
slung straight up and down from the left shoulder away from the game .
slowly and conscientiously he ate all of the wedge-shaped strips of fish .
" it ' s not really an operation at all .
he won ' t go out of the room .
“you never laid steve ketchel in your life and you know it .
o ' clock in the morning , and being so sleepy that i went to bed around four o '
“so i lay there without moving with the pillows for friends and i was in despair .
didn ' t want to bury her .
“no , ” said bill .
they’re really dreadful .
“yes , he was out here , ” jack says .
you bet he did .
' ' well , i know that now truly , ' the night porter who was really only a boy
" he breathed on the sheet and stroked his nose against it .
mike was a bad drunk .
" how much do i owe you ?
“can we have another ?
then we crossed a wide plain , and there was a big river off on the right shining in the
were heavily contracted during the coming season and the three of these subalterns would probably make much more apiece than
" " c ' est un original , " fontan said , " mais vraiment gentil .
" he better watch out , " he said gloomily .
' maybe he was a cow .
house .
the old man there speaks german and english .
" " you do not believe in education ?
i wasn’t so poor because there were more inside .
close behind was another string of mules and another wagon .
but it can be written , without tricks and without cheating .
do buck up .
“wait for us .
" she had been looking into my eyes all the time .
my prayers .
' ' what about a gimlet ?
" i remember when they were a comfort when we first had them , but i ' ve seen them
the road came out from the shadow of the woods into the hot sun .
off and it was pleasant and sunny on the terrace .
the boatman ' s anger seemed to be gone and to be replaced by a solid satisfaction .
the steak was thin from grass-fed beef and not very good but they were hungry and the girl kicked her
he had told his father how it was when his father had made him put it on but his father
_num_ st soldier—it was the least i could do for him .
but the worst thing , the way he felt at the moment , was the smell of booze .
the taxi stopped at the curb .
' molo had everything packed in a rucksack and i found my field glasses , m ' cola taking pop
i got on board and warmed up the engine .
' ' nope .
take that drink and remember .
he poured about half the contents out into the tin plate .
the sack flapped against his legs .
' ' good night , mr .
from the timber they approached the camp carefully .
” “i know , ” said johnson .
“it wasn’t your idea .
" i ' m going to sit here , " brett said .
' ve had .
” “it’s not my business , ” i told him .
“we’ll go and have a look at the second bull , ” wilson said .
“like a wedding , ” said the handler .
now he crouched and beckoned .
” “it doesn’t make good sense , ” she said .
” said madame fontan .
too great ; the hardness too tight .
we had been looking for that plum pudding for two months .
' ' i ' ll have bad hands in the morning , ' he said absent mindedly .
we came up to the fire and i could see the old man ' s face bleeding as he put
' ' how would i know ?
the last good country “nickie , ” his sister said to him .
i’d left word at the dock for them to tell him to go on board and wait for me but
“this is the last one , ” nick said .
' s knees .
it was all gone now .
where is the drunken comrade ?
houses and canal banks and hedgerows .
" " have faith in the yankees my son .
it swirled against the log spiles of the bridge .
good evening , my colonel .
that ' s why i wanted you to taste it .
you could beat this sky ; but not the country .
soy beans or peas in them , how the thickets and the cut-over land lay , where the cabins and
there , and much blood in the snow .
i wish i had not been with the kids , he thought .
he sat on the bed .
” “i’d better get to sleep , ” david said .
not see .
it ' s got a wonderful idea .
" i don ' t know about sheets , " he said .
where are you going ?
it might even be bad for you .
then someone in the half-track saw the blood and the volkswagen in the ditch and the bodies .
“did you kill that bull with that cannon you’re carrying around under your arm ?
” “oh , no , sir .
“there are no bed bugs on me , sergeant .
we could not make our way through but had to be moved with the whole thing , slowly , as
all of the school as they swim .
and i knew we were only forty minutes away now and i felt good to be getting back and i
' ' i think he ' s lovely looking .
if i could talk spik it would be different .
let it open by itself and come back of its own accord .
“any time , ” wilson told him .
i got them for all the unloadings .
his shoulders told him .
the moon is right .
” “go to sleep , ” i said .
" yes , " said georgette .
he thought i was pretty fine , then .
” he did not like to mention what that was , because that was the proof they had .
the rain lessened and the roads still seemed firm decided to go on until it was dark .
the squirrel fell , wounded , and when nick picked him up bit the boy clean through the ball of
“it’s no good doing a thing too long .
' ' like that , ' the colonel said .
“ask the little man there , ” said the first prisoner .
if so , i would come and simply be with you and care for you .
the murmur of talk .
nick kicked a loose spike and it dropped into the water .
there is doctor henry van dyke .
" hello , jerry , " he said .
most of it was so old that it was either corked or just plain faded out and gone to pieces
jock’s dressing room , “let’s get moving .
in spite of this introduction of emotion , mr .
on the plain while we had been hunting the twenty-five-mile salt-lick , and some bread .
” “he’s loose now , ” evans said .
our lady .
he hit him solidly and from as high up as he could raise the club .
certain hours , people in all the seats and on the roofs , if that were the way it were
sign the forms he did not believe in , could see an object , as soon as it was visible
could i buy it with a lost harpoon and a broken knife and two bad hands ?
, the envelope addressed to himself , into the inside left pocket of his tunic .
please believe me , richard .
" i must get a bath .
he was wearing his cape and had his cap on , and he came directly toward my machine and put
he could have done his business some place else .
but my father is .
don’t let them get too far ahead of you .
but i feel a lot better .
" " no , hombre .
after the rain it was raining hard when we passed through the suburbs of genoa and , even going very
the coffee-boy looked at manuel ' s pale face curiously .
i think we might make it as easy as we can until the plane comes .
kid lewis always had about three new dirty things jack couldn’t do .
i didn’t say anything to them and there they sat , eddy in one of the chairs with a bottle
the shark was not an accident .
' ' he hasn ' t finished , ' pop said .
are you , robert ?
his nerves went bad at the end of five weeks , and while he was pleased they lasted that long
he knew when he was ruined .
the same and give you the same feeling , but it didn’t .
in the _num_ s he revisited italy several times ; sometimes as a professional journalist and sometimes for pleasure .
god , what a bull .
he might give a slice to bobby , the retriever , who would be wet through to his hide many
that went into the compartment wash-room .
" " oh , shut up , michael , " brett said .
" did you see the show ?
do you feel rocky ?
” “i can’t , ” said the girl .
” we came in slow over the reef and to where i could see the beach shine .
it , so she had to attack me .
retana ' s man handed him the heavy porous jug .
that’s worth two .
" the cook sat on in his chair .
the bush country and into an open , scrubby , desert-looking stretch , i looked at him , whose elegance
my father’s office .
” “we’ll check her afterwards .
" the train stopped for half an hour at bordeaux and we went out through the station for a little
the door would not swing open because the sergeant was lying across it on the floor .
they ' re playing for our lady .
and that was the end of that .
to do and now it is not fashionable .
' i hope you do , ' the colonel said .
" " well , let him not get superior and jewish .
both frontiers are still open it doesn’t look so bad .
" " nothing to tell .
and they left them as soldiers .
then when he had seen the fish come out of the water and hang motionless in the sky before he
' the colonel asked .
that pop would not want it .
” “you tell me .
” “it’s too morbid for the st .
the lorry came in and told us , ' p .
" say , " bill said , " what about this brett business ?
two men were going by in the street .
“they’re all right .
wasn’t it just as dangerous for them to run back as to go forward ?
what the hell ' s the good in taking chances ?
it’s a long time .
he turned to nick .
wouldn’t you be ?
" i only needed time to wash .
sore throat all winter .
" it ' s a natural thing .
' ' wait .
the other lay flat on his cot with a blanket wrapped around his head .
” “three bottles , ” madame fontan said .
he made millions of dollars in texas .
the town and trees blown down and everything all blown and i got a skiff and went out and found
face and hands in the portable wash basin outside and go over to the dining tent to sit in a
made him into a man .
in most pursuit races , if there are only two riders , one of the riders is caught inside of
“you’re right there , sir , ” james said .
” “they’d come to see me get it , ” manuel said , hopefully .
dick had three axes under his arm .
” “it’s good , ” i said .
they all wore a sort of roman toga of unbleached muslin gathered at the shoulder that revealed no line of
but he put on a nice bait and he was fast .
” “yes , ” said the american lady .
' anyway m ' cola did not trust me for a long time .
" " poor russian , " said cayetano .
” so i gave him one .
" " please forgive me , jake .
" i feel good and my left hand is better and i have food for a night and a day
turner came up to william campbell’s room at noon william campbell was sleeping and as mr .
“i have some meat for all of us , and we can cook it in the room .
“hello , jack , ” he said .
but it really is wonderful .
he could get over sixty miles onto the speedometer in each hour .
" i ' ll be back when i have the sardines .
i do not know how many times we lost company commanders how many times over .
” “this was practical enough .
“it’s all right now about the writing on the mirror .
she was standing there smiling , to meet him .
we passed through a town and stopped in front of the posada , and the driver took on several packages
they’re playing for our lady .
' ' he wass standing in some bush .
negro standing .
them ; me especially , as a matter of precept .
i knew we were on the same side of the stream and above the camp and i hoped the roman
she looked lovely .
sleep that made the difference between a boy and men .
past the mangroves where the booze boat lay .
” “if the shoe pinches put it on .
as it passed close in front of his belly and as it went by it was , to him ,
please , please don’t be that way !
pocket .
make it look like a shambles .
had to come to them across the open .
" max looked into the mirror all the time he was talking .
“i hurt , ” the nigger said .
“you are reading aren’t you ?
as it went down , slipping lightly through the old man ' s fingers , he still could feel the
" " it would be too much for me .
the top of the shark ' s broad head .
and that night missing her so much it made him feel hollow sick inside , he wandered up past maxim’s
maybe , bumped into something as a young child , but i finally had somebody verify the story from spider
before i am captain in greek army too .
" how do i buck on about all this ?
smith would catch her cooking .
“you still have your bag .
” “you started it , ” the girl said .
i had made up my mind absolutely not to shoot unless i knew i could kill him , i had
they said he hadn’t come .
had been pressed down and where a broken stem of a weed was drying .
nick’s imagination pictured the great tenor doing something strange , bizarre , and heinous with a potato masher to a
i was learning under pop , while chink and i had discovered a big part of the world together and
there was a man sitting by it .
” “do you want anything of me , signer maggiore ?
" " when i go to the show i crouch down like this and try to look small .
this was different though .
' the colonel started to walk towards the door of the house .
' then he turned his back on them , without waiting to see the effect of his remark , and
' ' you ' re with me now , ' she said and held close and tight .
for the sable .
road who were leaving the country ahead where there was a famine and there were small trees and close brush
” “but you’re always the heroine in the stories you write ?
i’ll pic for you and if you don’t go big tomorrow night , you’ll quit .
' ' i want you , ' the colonel said and hung up .
they repeat this .
" sister cecilia was observing them happily .
" let me buy the wine , " the sexton said .
” “and you’re not disappointed because of anything ?
a bass jumped , making a circle in the water .
but i stayed good friends with the boy who had been wounded his first day at the front , because
" " well , " jack says , " i ' m going to need a lot of luck with
" you should fold it and keep it in your lap .
try and show a little breeding .
' if he comes don ' t worry about droopy or the others , ' pop whispered .
” he said to me .
but with them making their own breeze driving at a steady seventy on the straight long stretches and feeling the
moment of silence for our glorious dead , with a solid and ringing ' evviva d ' annunzio ' .
” the american lady looked and saw the last car .
' in the morning we were dressed before daylight , ate breakfast , and were hunting the forest edge and
but that was in another country and besides the wench is dead .
“please don’t worry .
" " why ?
nor the trick ones .
i’ve got the stuff .
the bull charged with the reflex , charged , and found not the flash of color but a white horse
the long straw gets first choice , ' pop explained .
forward .
” “because you’ll see them maybe on the road and you can tell me where they’ve gone .
they all started to die , so the elders got together and decided they should pull out to a healthy
you ' ve still one on your licence .
in the state he ' s in .
i ' ll take you at the turn .
“you see the magazine , of course ?
started it again he jumped up and went dancing down the street with them .
' ' didn ' t you hurt your bad hand ?
one of the ministers was sick with typhoid .
“where do you get all that tape ?
he had enough to worry about without that kind of thing .
“but it’s quite nice and clean .
they looked a dark chestnut and the one i had shot was almost black .
she is sound and not harmed in any way except for the tiller .
” “nobody .
when you ' re feeling .
" " you don ' t joke him .
she would have bought him anything he wanted .
i’m going to have three .
“you can work with young hernandez and kill two novillos after the charlots .
“it makes me sick to even think about it .
' ' we don ' t have fiascos .
he wrote many letters , of course , and in one of them he says that it is his turn
“it depends on whether he travels when the moon comes up .
it was good for a bird dog but it did not help a man .
estimation .
there was some confusion about buffalo because the roman kept saying ' nyati ' , but he meant they were
especially , don’t get killed .
" oh , can ' t you be decent ?
” nick said nothing .
i will take good care of him .
against the wall .
“i’ll fix up with you when i get paid .
“i want to be castrated , ” the boy said .
i ' ll get twenty-five thousand bucks .
“all right , ” said mr .
" they were going to shoot him when he came in to eat .
then , ' no .
" eat it well .
" what possessed you to bring her ?
behind the shoulders high up in the back and i saw it was cutting the leg from under him that
' s hand and then charo came over and shook hands with me .
" we ' ve a date up at montmartre .
" " so long , old kid !
" he said in english , " you tell fortunes ?
" thanks , no , " said the thin one .
“you not worry any more ?
they’re from the old days .
out and left him only the wonderful flying , dropping sensation in his body .
“but he got the eye before i knew even what was happening .
” “all that morning she would not tell me and i thought of all the worst possible things that could
sometimes we had to back out of bush and look for a way to circle around and come upon the
maybe i fed her too light last night .
it was the first of the autumn storms .
” “get back to madrid .
“ya lo creo .
” “she is all around me , ” he said .
and read the evening and the morning papers .
good evening with excellent food cooked on the old open-hearth kitchen .
oh , damned good .
" what have you got to eat ?
shortly , we are coming to a view that i want you to see .
she and nick loved each other and they did not love the others .
everything is much simpler in a hospital , including the jokes .
and how his neck was a part of his shoulders and the shiny black of his horns as he galloped
under and beyond the logs was a deep pool .
own .
' ' you ' d be overrun like a dose of salts , ' the waiter said .
" " her ladyship wants a drink , " mike said .
” frazer asked .
over .
you must realize the rains are coming .
" " extraordinary thing , " mike said .
on her face .
i don ' t know , he said frankly .
“and i remember when he said it and i was a lovely piece then exactly as he said , and
' ' not a thing .
it was really bad and the sun was only on the hillside now .
” “could you let me take a skillet ?
" i went up to him and found him in exactly the position i had left him , white-faced ,
he had already learned there was only one day at a time and that it was always the day you
and then writes vastly and fluently far into the night .
" i don ' t smoke , sir .
' ' i ' ll have some coffee and hot rolls , and only feel them with my fingers .
the gate as the mules came in , then around under the dark passageway , men grunting as they took
" don ' t you want me to go and see the police ?
" " oh , rot , " said brett .
” “you are not men , ” said johnny .
“well , ” said my father .
i suppose they all end up like mongolia .
the trout hung heavy in the net , mottled trout back and silver sides in the meshes .
you would have to keep almost level with the ground to move at all .
he could not even see a bird .
” “bullshit .
the old man still had two drinks of water in the bottle and he used half of one after he
they were as far forward as they could get .
" what the hell ' s that to me ?
” “i was attending the birth of a calf .
” doctor wilcox had said nothing but he had bought the leather-bound guide that same day .
the shark still hung there .
" " is dead , captain doctor .
or the c .
he was never here before .
“that’s better , ” she said .
' yes , ' said the wanderobo-masai excitedly .
at the same time , he was storing up ideas for a number of his short stories , with themes
you ' re stupid , he told himself .
” wilson said to macomber .
” manuel asked , looking up at zurito across the table .
“hello , ” he said .
he resolved , with considerable horror , that when he was old enough he would try mashing at least once
" " they only want to kill when they ' re alone .
it was an easy shot now and he felt the cartilage sever .
" she asked seriously .
i feel good now .
" " tell them about your learned counsel , " brett said .
and the purple stripes that banded him .
" " i ' m satisfied , " cohn said .
' ' no , you wouldn ' t , ' the girl said .
" he ' s a lovely wolf .
c’est normale .
" good luck old man .
maybe not a right to .
” when i woke up in the morning and looked out we were going through fine country that looked like
all we could see of the procession through the closely pressed people that crowded all the side streets and curbs
' then let ' s have fun .
this is complicated .
" " no , you won ' t .
“what about a cuadrilla ?
i’m dead .
” “tell me how they work it .
” “have you got an indian girl , nickie ?
“yes , sir .
' ' you are much richer than i am .
” as he started the car there were a few mosquitoes in it , the big black everglades type ,
” my father asked .
' ' hurry up , ' she said .
the old man drank his coffee slowly .
all so we call her desdemona .
" that happy steinfelt ' s a big operator .
in the firelight nick saw that his face was misshapen .
” “we ought to get some berries and i ought to get a partridge or some partridges .
come on , let’s go .
manuel saw no one he knew in all the people he passed .
“what’s the matter , boy ?
good-bye and good luck !
do you think you talk spanish better than i do ?
the russians that came out as demonstrators when the government bought the tanks were perfect .
“i am a bullfighter .
" carl asked .
quite naked , from the village .
made , knowing the town he would reach for the night , nick noticed which corn fields had soy beans
in the black forest , after the war , we rented a trout stream and there were two ways to
” “i had fun .
' where ' s that bastard garrick ?
i couldn’t have her marrying a foreigner .
” he asked cipriani .
was thirty-five years old , kept himself very fit , was good at court games , had a number of
brueghel would have been in a hell of a shape if he had to look at the country like this
' ' don ' t use it , ' the colonel said .
there were rain clouds in the sky and it was very hot .
' you ought to take a good one .
watched the bull ' s feet .
then the elephant’s shadow covered them and he moved past making no noise at all and they smelled him in
“you know something did happen to me , ” he said .
might intercept them on their way down into the river bed .
they sat together and ate the fried chicken and each ate a piece of cherry pie .
" what about a cuadrilla ?
but you will never see trees , daughter , until we go to america .
" " it ' s all right .
but you must write it and you must call it ‘the butterfly and the tank .
“you get over outside the fence , ” his sister said .
” “it’s an awfully lonely beach , ” she said .
“hogan’s as dumb as i am .
hudson , the reverend gilbert white has written most interestingly of the hoopoe on its occasional and not at all
“he was busting people all the time after she went away and they put him in jail .
but no one has said anything .
it was a library book—frank on a gunboat .
better and know he ' s not forgotten by his own people .
” “you’ll be back soon ?
” “you aren’t , ” bill said .
" " i ' ll not tell you a damn thing .
" " you have youth , confidence , and a job , " the older waiter said .
it came out all right because some of them , friends of mine , swore he was after me with
“you tell them why , ” he said .
my old man opened up the sportsman and studied the handicaps for a while and then he said , “you
and it had quite a success .
her mother , the cousin of fontan , and she said to me , ' en amérique il ne faut
i rang and no one came to the door .
" the gentlemen are just come down from the wiesbadenerhütte , " the innkeeper said .
this was a comparatively safe place , i ' m really not lying , not me nor anybody eke .
they were scattered all over the hillside .
" there ain ' t anything to do .
" i hope you get a hell of a lot of fun out of it .
should care to read it .
i ' m through with them .
you folks from miami ?
" go on and get on with whatever you were doing .
one morning after he had been home about a month his mother came into his bedroom and sat on the
piga !
" it ' s funny a priest never speaks to you , " john said .
" " listen , " said mr .
the man who owned the bull ranch hoped that the bull would change , or learn , or be different
" " good .
' ' several times i have known how long an hour can be , ' the colonel said .
it was hot and we came off the floor perspiring .
" " don ' t bring anything .
' ' i won ' t be rough , ' the colonel said .
the car stopped and they all got out .
’ that’s exactly what he said .
you were nice to play .
” “i like lice better , ” said johnny .
” roger relaxed .
that school teachers include them in story collections that their pupils have to buy in story courses , and you
in the middle of the cockpit , but then he was watching the seas and the compass and looking for
“i want to hook , fight , and land my fish myself .
' ' maybe a little .
“wait till we eat them , ” nick said .
pressing so that they were happily and kindly , darkly and warmly at home and without pain in the darkness
“you aren’t drunk , ” bill said .
" i bought him in palermo , " the american lady said .
“damn crook .
have to check that figure .
” “there’s probably a reward for him .
but it will be better than that coffee pot you have in there now .
' you ' re so sure of a shot sooner or later on the lick .
when we saw two people coming towards us .
' " ' no , ' said cohn .
" you can work with young hernandez and kill two novillos after the chariots .
' ' i don ' t think i will drink anything .
ole andreson was lying on the bed with all his clothes on .
“let’s drive tomorrow .
dusty afternoon with the big crowd watching , and now , with a broken back , was going to learn
” his mouth was full .
, fresh tracks of four greater kudu bulls that had been on the salt the night before , as well
' ' i know him , ' said the colonel .
che mala fortuna !
when i alighted with my trusty para-chute there was a tendency to regard me as a criminal fascist due to
but i would rather have it bent and dull and know i had to put it on the grindstone again
harry , ” said the nigger .
" " doesn ' t anything ever happen to your values ?
” the posthumously published “summer people” and the fragment called “the last good country” stem from this period .
hottest days and they three lay against the trunk of a hemlock wider than two beds are long , with
" i ' ll get some more beer , " madame fontan said .
but be ready for the rhino after you shoot .
saw a couple of cows .
" " that ' s it , " jack would say .
“did you ever talk through a sheet ?
“if you are rested i would go , ” i urged .
' i like it too much .
” “lorna doone and kidnapped and wuthering heights .
it will be in an ordinary pernod bottle .
kind of jewfish .
a form of putting the dishes in the sink until morning , i held the flashlight for m ' cola
i certainly did hate him .
" he liked to think of the fish and what he could do to a shark if he were swimming
" retana said nothing but looked at manuel across the big desk .
the driver looked around .
” i did not say anything and the bell buzzed .
“it isn’t so noisy now .
“conversation is going to be so difficult , ” margaret said .
" " yes , i do .
you seen me earn it .
as bad or worse than in the illustrated papers .
but his victory only lasted until he had walked halfway down the ridge .
' we sat in the shade and droopy went up one side of the stream and the local guide the
” “it wasn’t pushed home .
something he could get his arm through , he could do it all right .
“listen , ” ad francis said .
i think it ' s a better café than this one .
my curiosity as to how people would act in this case had been long ago , and shamefully , satisfied
well , he had been a good kid .
' ' well you are mine now .
' we ' ll give him something to write about .
there ' s nothing to that .
' ' and you know what you want ?
" " how about picadors ?
but all those places are too far away .
this is the second day now that i do not know the result of the juegos , he thought .
” doctor wilcox asked him .
” “no , but i hope to be .
" " tell him that bulls have no balls , " mike shouted .
a wonderful kitten you are and what lucky kittens we are .
for other people , people waiting to go to dinner , people just waiting , and roger said , “walk
” and i thought that the police would never be able to tell her that even if they had the
" we ate dinner at madame lecomte ' s restaurant on the far side of the island .
you wait and see .
" " let ' s hope .
one bull hit .
it was a very big cow sable , dark chestnut , white marks on the face , white belly ,
he stepped clear of the horse , his face white as a dirty sheet , and got the chauffeur with
into the water .
i tell them all you taught me .
i’m paid to do that .
dramatic insisting it was a man , a man , a man !
i drank my glass and poured out another .
if you hadn’t told me they would have picked me up .
but how could she love a sad son of a bitch like you ?
of those bastards while they’re on the dock and wire a piece of iron on them from the old mill
they took an assurance that he did not feel .
were done against it .
" she pulled her man ' s felt hat down and started in for the bar .
at live pigeons , in competition , when he walked out on the cement , spun the wheel and walked
timber on the mountain .
' ---- forbidden , ' said the colonel .
they were rising to insects come from the swamp on the other side of the stream when the sun went
” there was no answer from the next room .
“drop the towel , ” freedman said .
” “i’m going to get in that game again if you’ll let me take a thousand pesetas , ” al
' ' i don ' t understand it because my american is so incomplete .
" i ' m just drinking a little wine .
today we work pretty good .
i say stop it .
' ' don ' t send out to look for us along the road until day after to-morrow , '
brushy , and very broken , with a hard climb before you got up into them , and easy hunting
now he knew they would kill the elephant and there was nothing he could do about it .
you told her to take her time .
" some one , a very good friend , told me once , ' no foreigner can make an american
' ' we will cut to the break-through , ' the colonel said .
romero leaned over the barrera and asked for the water-jug .
dolphin is too sweet .
had not .
little air-o-plane no longer had any tail .
“you’re next on the tub , ” i said to al .
all the shops had their awnings down against the heat .
in this town , too .
valley one long heat mirage .
“how is the offensive , comrades ?
or the people .
the ring was rolled and sprinkled , and carpenters replaced weakened or cracked planks in the barrera .
he remembered poor julian and his romantic awe of them and how he had started a story once that began
when the gunner went down his head hit first and he ran with the girl because they heard the m
to-day is friday _three roman soldiers are in a drinking-place at eleven o ' clock at night .
“we’re going to kill a swede .
” “how am i to know who you are ?
that something i cannot yet define completely but the feeling comes when you write well and truly of something and
the back of the canvas was to the other diners .
you could not get dry and it was better to get wet quickly and stay wet .
the yard .
them for bait and sometimes i would catch grasshoppers and toss them into the stream and watch them float along
we had scouts out on three different hill tops and we were waiting for it to be light enough for
' whose your old man ?
' romantic bastard .
” “mais il y a très bonne chasse aussi en france , ” i said .
i put a shell in the chamber of the winchester and filled up the magazine .
finally she said , “he’s cold now” and had wrapped him in the paper and put him in the back
" sam , " he called .
” “come again , ” the man said and picked up the paper from where roger had laid it on
lourdes .
i don’t see any end until we destroy them , there and here and everywhere .
” “we won’t stay there .
they must have gone inside there when they knew it was coming .
the girl friend was now typing practically all of the manuscripts .
you know you didn ' t have a good time at san sebastian because none of our friends would invite
the willows of the two canals that had contained the dead .
' ' what about the good writers ?
sing , too .
and his left hand , and his left hand was taking all the strain and cutting badly .
” “oh , the chauffeur will have it .
the peasant did not pay any attention .
” “i’ve got another scheme .
they went on eating .
“want to play some cribbage , john ?
the one who was with me , busy changing film in the hand cameras , had not noticed him .
the next night back at mestre he did not tell the girl he went upstairs with at the villa rossa
“please do not touch me .
" " he ' s in the royal air force .
upset and then frightfully thirsty .
zurito sat patting his horse and looking at the bull charging the cape that hernandez swung for him out under
the fish is calm and steady .
knives pointing straight ahead , one on each side of his head .
i’ve never loved any one else the way i love you .
the children ran screaming , the warriors laughed and laughed , and then as kamau , in response to popular
don’t you think you ought to work more ?
“i wish i still worked here , mr .
i rather liked the count .
it was easter sunday and the fascists were advancing toward the ebro .
“i feel wonderful .
how much of it was the responsibility he felt for me to pop and how much was his own acute
would signal that ever mysterious event called contact , and the old man still sat there .
second onto that rod and the rod bending like a bow , and then the butt caught him in the
' by god , isn ' t it a great looking country ?
felt somebody touch me on the arm and garrick , who had crawled up , whispered throatily , ' piga
any time .
the husband was going on with us , it seemed .
" i don ' t think so , " said the american lady .
“hello , ” she said .
' it ' s all right .
i didn ' t have it right i knew .
we went around one side of the mountain , doubled back on a higher grade and crossed over , out
you block him off at charlevoix and petoskey and st .
, bending the collar of feathers on his neck where the other birds were still thumping .
' i can still count up to seven .
you can do better than that .
evans , ” suzy said .
_num_ to carry as they went on through the broken light of the forest .
skins , " another pic answered .
put these two in , too , ” he said , giving her his own glass and the one poured
it was a big book and it was always on the parlor table and i would look at it while
“that way we’ll go faster .
, bush-scrubby hills , looked awful .
i had a hell of a row about him last night .
then why did i miss on that cow ?
” “there are no foreign countries , maria , where people speak spanish .
' ' so now we stand up and kiss each other and say good-bye .
foolish .
everyone has been very nice .
" " oui , monsieur .
" how many were they ?
” the room at the florida was crowded .
“we are advancing .
' ' that ' s what makes it fun , ' i said .
” she asked roger .
they nest on the coral rocks .
the hill where we had watched from with our glasses .
” he felt very shaky now and he sat down on the steering seat and held his right arm tight
her husband had died when she was still a comparatively young woman and for a while she had devoted herself
of the dictionary to tell him .
" " there aren ' t any bull-fighters any more , " retana said .
' ' daughter , ' the colonel said .
he was one ahead .
" with all those who do not want to go to bed .
maestro_ downed a quick one .
in spain .
" " no , don ' t .
he stopped by the bank , out of sight of anything in the stream , and took two lead shot
" " then i could stop and pray at the tomb of my grandfather on the way to the ranch
you know nothing of these combinations .
not following , so i stopped .
six with submachine guns took up positions outside the door .
' shut up , you bastard , ' i said , and put my hand to my mouth .
the sun was rising for the third time since he had put to sea when the fish started to circle
not feel they were getting their money’s worth unless they had shared that cot with the white hunter .
chapter six it was a new country to us but it had the marks of the oldest countries .
there was a label on the cologne bottle with the address .
” “what the hell you doing in key west then ?
” “well , i got to keep bright boy amused .
frazer thought , is no opium .
bill and mike were with edna .
warm sand .
on and swung aboard the train as it started .
bull-fighters are not like that .
but soon he has to circle .
, and then slipped him into my bag .
' ' that lorry is finished , ' the austrian said .
' ' you ' re fast .
" i wonder what a bone spur is , he thought .
who is your valéry ?
' i kissed her good-bye and we whispered something .
so i was glad i had called my friend pepé at seguridad headquarters because luis delgado was an old client
" certainly like to drink , " bill said .
" " i don ' t care for paris .
" i come right back .
” the girl came in and nick noticed that her apron covered swellingly her pregnancy .
" he looked out the door .
" stick around , jerry .
“bring me another glass of milk , ” jack said to her .
' ' it is very romantic .
old man .
my shaving things , hung up some clothes in the big armoire , and made up a bundle for the
brett ' s had affairs with men before .
it was just starting to get fall weather and it’s nice country there in jersey , up in the hills
my old man figured that training him and riding him , himself , he was a good investment .
nick was feeling hollow and happy .
' ' he looks like something we could do without .
johnson , ” he says , “you’re just unlucky .
the trucks ground up and away heading out of it all and the peasants plodded along in the ankle deep
wollen sie ?
" the girl brought the menu .
we ate in the dining-room and there was a clean tablecloth .
they went off and now , at the end of the day , the sun came out brightly below the
' ' let ' s defer it , ' the colonel said .
' i ' m gentle now and the hell with the rest of it .
” “do you know if he belongs to the national geographic society ?
until he went to princeton .
he was very , very tired .
we all had the same medals , except the boy with the black silk bandage across his face , and
in him and he swung over on it twice before they pulled him off it .
' no kidding .
he thought taking them with the water now , was in bad taste .
i had been having brett for a friend .
there must be other comfortable trains that don ' t go so fast .
above the hook , clinching them with his teeth .
too warm ; the lights were bright and the tables shiny from polishing .
the bull detached himself from the horse and charged the cape , and manuel , running sideways and holding the
now everybody was figuring they might as well go next door to the index or else cut out and go
i told him .
' ' i love you true , ' he said and just then the gondola turned to the left ,
“he’ll be back in about half an hour .
“i understand that , but why did the bullets all go in the front ?
dump your load and get into town .
” “you will be , soon enough .
the car was powdered with dust .
” “very much .
' i sat down , the big gun feeling heavy and unfamiliar , held on the buff ' s shoulder
me and i made a turn and was down by the docks and i met a fellow and he said
' ' yes , ' everybody agreed .
” “they’ve put me in it .
some dice ?
but the fighting jacket of the man who killed him and who is called the matador was wet through by
" " the keeley , " william campbell said .
manuel looked down at the picador ' s enormous hands folding the paper to put away in his pocket .
" " tell them about in the court , " brett said .
two indians were sitting down at the end of the bench and one standing up against the wall .
then we saw the copains falling back to retire onto the main body .
he grabs jack’s arm and says , “can i hit when he’s got me like this ?
day sunday .
“i’ll bust him .
odgar could never get it and it meant everything in the world to him .
” “and i’m a rummy fake santa claus .
, go over to where the rhino head lay in the shade .
the pistol fired again .
the way a cat is when it sleeps within itself .
” “try the lighter .
they were all alone .
also i have never denounced anyone before .
there’s no sense waking anyone up , he thought .
he shook his head .
you know you do .
" " oh , mademoiselle hobin , " frances clyne called , speaking french very rapidly and not seeming so
so she urged that they go to europe , where cohn could write .
“but you always fall for somebody else and then it’s all right .
told him very cheerfully .
closet , but unused .
he loved to fight and he fought with all the other bulls of his own age , or any age
he went over to the edge of the track down the little slope to the water and washed his hands
” “why didn’t you lie down in front of the kitchen door ?
“a rummy fake santa claus .
wilson’s is always red .
i ' d like to have you around .
small country , a country being an area , a valley or range of hills , a man can hunt
of his mouth .
” “i’m the sister or the brother of a morbid writer and i’m delicately brought up .
two !
" good-by , " i said .
while he was picking up the hoppers the others warmed in the sun and commenced to hop away .
' ' only when it rains .
” “we need it , ” roger said .
' ' so he ' s been telling me , ' pop said .
that ' s all .
it ' s my own fault , all right .
' hell , man , it hasn ' t rained in three weeks .
you are not a bandit and this has nothing to do with the cinema .
we ' ve only got four minutes more .
hirsch , " nick said .
" " oh , yes , " said romero .
how is it with you ?
” late in the afternoon they were still tracking through the broken country .
what was his talent anyway ?
" " and he ' s only going to see us once , " al said from the kitchen .
" well , then , we ' ll have to get some convenient place in america .
' i wish to christ i could give him a regiment .
no pleasure in anything if you mouth it up too much .
his sister put her hand in his and walked close to him .
jack ?
" hello , jake .
but you take it easy now .
marry them .
' no , ' as he started to make delivery of one of the petrol tins , ' in the
you be a lawyer nor a priest .
dining-car until half past three this afternoon ?
" sportsman is the best .
he had already sent down , via the dumb-waiter , for a gordon ' s gin and campari and he
aren ' t you going back to paris ?
' they feel wonderful , ' he said .
” “that’s a good idea , ” i said .
out , but here he had something that had hurt frightfully and just when he had felt it breaking him
his face was very white and there were dark areas under his eyes .
" let me tell you .
' you beauty and lovely .
' being born there isn ' t everything .
i felt her start and then churn ahead as she hooked up and i was plenty busy with mr .
” krebs felt embarrassed and resentful as always .
” “with the very brown face ; the cap over one eye .
' i ' ll see that he is not too expensive , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
" son of a bitch , " said billy .
we will dedicate ourselves to the cheese with happiness .
bill poured it out .
listen , ” he said to george , “tell the nigger to come out here .
i put my arm around her and she rested against me comfortably .
“why did we have to have separate rooms ?
the fact that i took it as a matter of course did not alter that any .
' ' how far are they ?
we followed the game trail down the river-bed and as we went the grass was much higher .
in her dream she was at the house on long island and it was the night before her daughter’s début
and you’d see people and could have some fun and then you’d come back and it would have to be
it was different colored blood and david had thought i must remember that and he had but it had never
“i don’t believe it , ” george said .
the ferry is the easiest place to pick him up .
of sawdust and the chestnut tree over the roof with a mad woman downstairs_) , and the year worrying about
what kind of soldier was my brother ?
' i wanted to have him for you in case any _pescecani_ came in .
" that was about five o ' clock on the day before .
never been shelled , but few travellers would take a good full breath of that early summer air and have
” john asked him .
do it for one hundred and five days .
he shifted the rod to his left hand , worked the trout upstream , holding his weight , fighting on
” frank the bartender asked me .
zurito said nothing .
” i took off their brassards and put them in my pocket .
all the time we were walking soldier was kidding him .
_num_ for _num_ .
the public boneheap and your own mother .
” “listen—” says the referee , and he gives them the same old line .
i tried to help him and suggested by signs that we cut a pole and sling him , carrying him
“remember , that he who ruleth his spirit is greater than he that taketh a city , ” said his
“it’s nice that way .
they will be pretty close into the lee with the wind and someone is sneaking on to them now surely
“we’ll give him a little while to make sure he’s solid asleep .
' ' and your wife ?
bad and remembering .
what rot .
then i didn’t pay any attention to it because i never infect .
they dove into the surf that was sandy where it broke and swam out to the clean green water .
young buckley came in with his patrol from across the river .
it should have been made by at least a division .
it was just starting to get fall weather and it ' s nice country there in jersey , up in
i would have sent it when the first notice came .
' i ' m trying not to act that way .
" talk to me , bright boy , " max said .
“no , you’re not .
“i had a swell time .
' ' what women ?
” “i’ll be right back .
his complicated fireworks that fell into the crowd and charged and chased , sputtering and cracking , between the legs
” “i didn’t see any kid around here yesterday .
' general .
all looked very black , big necked , and heavy .
on this day , though , there was no aircraft .
” “quite so , ” mr .
that made him feel better .
' that ' s one reason that i cannot marry you .
[ he sets down an earthenware pitcher that he has filled from one of the casks .
in the distance .
andreson , " the woman said .
a nickel for your thoughts now , he thought .
i stood up and motioned to the women that they could have the petrol tins and the cases .
there’s no sense to get plugged with me .
and get started .
' as they walked , with the wind at their back , and her hair blowing better than any banner
as a whole present a world of experience .
' can ' t i ride with you to the garage ?
he did not want one badly enough .
' ' i hope it is not serious .
face and got up to hear m ' cola chuckling and choking and the old man giggling .
it is the one country that every one is sure of .
' ' are you happy ?
good general .
“what’s the other girls’ names ?
“i’m sorry i was nervous , littless , ” he said .
we got into the big car .
' ' who was top gun ?
we ' ll take him .
the old man swung the club down on him again as he slipped away to swallow and hit only the
but this was a long time ago , and then we did not any of us know how it was
it will be simpler .
in bed in the tent , i said , ' what in god ' s name prompted you to say
they are accused of disloyalty .
holding the blade he reached forward and punched the handle through the ice .
that i can promise you .
' ' was he bad there ?
tent by pegging out the sides .
knew it and he knew it .
the color change in caucasian races is from white to yellow , to yellow-green , to black .
' baboons , ' he said .
owns a chain of sweetshops in the states .
girl a good husband .
you make rough jokes sometimes too , you know .
his eyes watched fuentes , now standing still .
in the middle of the room was a suitcase , a duffel bag , and two rucksacks .
hogan brought in a quart of liquor and two glasses .
i was pushed close against the planks of the fence .
' ' i have something here in an envelope that you can put in the safe .
” “willie’s a good skate , ” the man said .
“do not give him too much importance .
you just enjoy this , littless .
the ring was gray in the rotting gray log and all around were other long gray trunks and gray brush
" johnson asked the other porters .
“let’s go .
" " how are your kids ?
the sun was two hours higher now and it did not hurt his eyes so much to look into the
' ' we destroy them in many ways .
that would be a big joke .
“did you say eleven or twelve years old ?
" galanos , " he said aloud .
rising and dropping , and in it came the crack of the guns and the bubbly rumbling of the outgoing
the cook , and they said they were going to kill you .
duty is a very strong thing .
at cannes , where it stopped for twelve minutes , the train had left with no signal of departure and
listen , jackson , everybody who ' s soldiered a long time has had their rapidos and more than one
” “do you suppose he was hit ?
" " get another big beer , " bill said to the waiter .
signora , come up here .
' you take it , daughter .
" thanks for taking me .
mais maintenant en amérique je comprends .
the chef and i are kindred spirits .
they couldn ' t have lived on deck .
' ' may i give it to you ?
” “you never felt any better did you ?
' ' i ' m you now , ' she said .
” “why don’t you prove it ?
over as a porpoise does in the sea .
lifted the ashes of the burned-over ground as we walked .
ahead the road stretched out white across the plain going toward pamplona .
he had made himself a place in them to lie down in .
" pinin stood still beside the bunk .
" " let us take the stuff home , " the boy said .
” “yes , ” nick said , “that’s the way it is everywhere i’ve ever been .
" no other tunes were as satisfactory , mr .
“bring me a bottle of sion , please .
we had that disturbed emotional feeling that always comes after a bull-fight , and the feeling of elation that comes
jerry .
and over the edge of the gully and to the meadow on a dead run .
he didn ' t come here to do anyone any harm .
the position of the boat and he felt very good as he reloaded .
it was fine .
” “that is all right , ” said mr .
' look at that for an anecdote .
of riding on greasy , slippery asphalt and cobble stones in traffic in the rain , and how we had
killed three and knew what it consisted in , but i was getting more excitement from this one than the
he leaned back in his chair and yawned .
of course i do know .
can she be libeled ?
she seems to be absolutely fine and straight .
' ' good , ' said the colonel .
“they all gone ?
the old man said he was huge , he was black , he had great horns , and he came
” they were coming down a long hill when they saw sunlight ahead through the tree trunks .
" i say , michael , you might not be such a bloody ass , " she interrupted .
you and i and the signora .
by their rightful owner signed richard cantwell , col .
" get to work , old man , " he said .
but he might have called me instead of shouting .
i couldn ' t swallow for a week .
i wonder how much he sees at that depth , the old man thought .
" " don ' t be silly .
" that ' s where he ' s going damn quick , " retana ' s man said .
" " then shot in the belly .
when you have shot one bird flying you have shot all birds flying .
good time and you could see the buoys and the channels .
“you’ll be leaving us soon .
" watch the charge and see the picador try and keep the bull off , but then don ' t
there wasn’t a fish .
you have to keep a light drag .
” “lying down ?
" and pain does not matter to a man .
right now , or two will get you thirty , we will not ever see one another again .
he ' s a nice boy .
" " you going to fish bait ?
i wonder if the mate was there with him .
of the being dead look that karl had asleep .
hills , until we saw the firelight in the trees .
a shooter , then , except potentially and was a colonel of infantry in the army of the united states
' ' i ' ve got three of them in the back of the car , ' the colonel said
“harold , ” his mother stood in the kitchen doorway , “harold , please don’t muss up the paper .
" asked the porter who had spoken first .
but it sound like this " sifilus " --do you know what i mean--now tell me will it ever be
, waved his hand and the gypsy ran out , trailing his cape .
but i wouldn’t carry him the way things were now , not even if i wanted to .
i thought i might as well take it .
" go on out there , " manuel said .
and i know it’s perfectly simple .
" if you are interested in scars i can show you some very interesting ones but i would rather talk
ad kept on looking at nick .
when they came back to the ranch he’d been dead a week , frozen in the corral , and the
' what are we going to do ?
i walked down the hill from the cathedral and up the street to the café on the square .
with it , she’d swallow water , it would drown kate , kate wasn’t really any good underwater , he
the _gran maestro_ was admiring fully .
“he is my only brother .
' but if you tease me about them , i will give them back , and on the linen tablecloth
' just then the telephone buzzed .
then what will you drink ?
out over the top of the town .
there was a wind blowing .
manuel passed the muleta in front of the bull’s black muzzle .
brett had a title , too .
maybe you will feel good about it again .
" " the bulls were fine , " cohn said .
" " it ' s liable to go down by five o ' clock .
' look at it , ' the driver said .
" a bunch of bloody globos illuminados .
“give me the stuff .
where we are .
macomber , in the car , had shot at the buffalo with the _num_ .
if you want to , " said the boy .
” “won’t you miss them terribly ?
” “three weeks today .
" " the indians were all in town getting drunk .
i must hold all i can , he thought .
' ' yes , ' she said , sleepily and comfortably .
' ' not if you wrote it , ' p .
" isn ' t that a pub across the way ?
i can give up my brother .
" cohn looked up as i went in .
over to the main house for lunch , if he had not been playing baseball or had not been down
could not shoot him because he was in some sort of forest reserve .
' where did you hold on him the second time ?
i don’t know , marge .
tree .
” “that’s a nice name for it .
" " they ' re very short , " said pedro romero .
“i won’t kill him unless he comes around the house .
" " what are you going to kill ole andreson for ?
been lying on the tin roof now sat between us .
“it’s pretty nice out in the country .
that ' s always fun .
i think they come any time .
" " maybe we ' ll see you at biarritz , " hubert said .
said the detective had followed her to the train and appeared in the compartment just before the train pulled out
montoya introduced me to some of them .
afterward juma gave them each a breast with the heart in it and ate the two necks and backs and
it’s just like homesteading .
he saw the young gentleman coming down the path and spoke to him mysteriously .
" " i think they went to the pelota .
" " you ' re a pretty bright boy , aren ' t you ?
_komm ' susser tod_ , he thought .
' ' i ' ve had some damn good times in my life without sheets .
" we ' d come in that town at one end and we were going out the other .
" al asked george .
it is trying to die because it dislikes me .
all he needs is to have corbett pick him to win for it to be all over .
to-day the waiters did not leave you alone all morning to read without asking if you wanted to order something
then move to nine out of ten ; hang there , and then move up to a twenty out of
john laughed .
and we walked down to the car .
as fuentes walked forward the bull charged .
have , speak among themselves .
he’d hit him twice , hard , on the side of the jaw and when he didn’t go down he
then i would like to close on this note .
" it ' s a remarkable place , " harris said , when we came out .
of his left hand .
“go on to the meeting , ignacio , ” he said .
" look up there , " i said .
" " in red lodge it is of all prices , " said the big one .
drink , and finished his paragraph .
he had always liked new orleans , the little that he knew of it , but it was a letdown
” “i just wanted to cheer you up .
” “it is wrong , ” said the boy .
" " damned good chaps , " brett said .
that it sank , swirling in the fast water , and he lowered the tip of the willow pole to
that kind of stuff is terrible .
” “the best , ” said johnson .
' there never really was , my colonel .
' but they don ' t hang themselves , he thought .
kicking like a man keeping a ball in the air , manuel kept the bull from getting a clean thrust
it looked like half a mile down to the ring .
all people such as us have it .
he apologized and made me take another drink .
look , this cabron who shoots me just now .
” al asked george .
” “there’s a comrade here that doesn’t like me .
wilson’s trade .
" it ' s a remarkable place , though , " harris said .
' ' you wouldn ' t tell her about us , so she could write about it ?
" " thanks , " the boy said .
“the pope , herben hoover , and franklin delano roosevelt .
lodge .
there was a big fire in the fireplace .
' it ' s a boulevard , ' he said .
i should see madrid .
it isn’t bad .
the referee looked at john and waved walcott on .
bargemen at the sweeps as they came toward the bridge .
nick ' s imagination pictured the great tenor doing something strange , bizarre , and heinous with a potato masher
some are too badly wounded to move .
it had all been easy up to now .
” nick went inside the cottage .
it was getting dark as we came in , and now that it was dark it was cold and the
” he sat down on the floor beside nick’s chair .
” “i don’t believe schmidt is catholique , ” madame fontan said .
“what’s it going to be , harry ?
it had a flexible handle and was limber in his hand .
i couldn ' t go , that would be all .
you know i miss a lot .
i could have said he fell overboard , but it makes plenty talk .
' ' yes , ' the colonel agreed .
dan can move on down to m ' uto umbu and he can get his oryx .
“they haven’t got a cure for anything .
” “just what happens ?
americans and the russians .
” nick was looking down at the little man .
" brett started toward the table .
but we could not trail from there .
“he writes the books himself , ” he explained to madame .
brett and i sat on at the bar .
“i believe you , harold .
” “don’t listen to him .
“all i want is an even break , ” manuel said reasoningly .
world , and all of us that used to hang out there had a great affection for it .
by .
” “but for me ?
" you know i ' m right .
look again until the horse is dead if it ' s been hit .
” “i haven’t been .
he could not see underwater in the dark .
poor horse-cavalryman , he thought .
i knew in the smoke and din of chicote’s that the offensive was a failure and i knew it even
' going to pick the old man up in the village .
still he had given him the chance .
, iodoform , carbolic and an over-heated radiator .
” “oh that’s a key west boat .
he was lighting up a little .
“the nurse should be here from st .
me , with long hair .
afterward , all that was faked turned bad and gave an unpleasant feeling .
i ' ll take that .
i’m going to think about her .
but how is one to know about an american ?
” “i think he’s after nick by now , ” the girl said .
but each trap had two german panzerfausten .
my right hand can hold it as long as it is braced , he thought .
” “then why do we have to talk about me going away ?
the sedge that marked the canal ahead of them , they worked together in complete co-ordination .
” “that’s a nice word too .
" he draws it , manolo , " retana said in explanation .
” “oh i love you so and i love him so .
then i had lunch and frankie came in .
expeditionary forces , which included all the military politicians of the rear , and who wore a badge of shame
" well , how did you like the bulls ?
' where ' s the bull ?
“who the hell’s shot worse ?
' she said it as a flat statement and it came to the colonel in the same way as a
he did not care about getting many trout .
“if anybody comes in you tell them the cook is off , and if they keep after it , you
" stay at my house if you like , bird , " he said .
" " the man is not crazy , " cayetano said .
“let’s go there .
there was only a bad headache .
horses to the rail in front of the lunch room and walked down the sidewalk on their high-heeled boots .
sometimes they go right after them and kill them .
we unwrapped the little parcels of lunch .
i was all bandaged up .
just because he was a b .
" you ' re sure this thing has trout in it ?
" manuel lit it .
it was made of worn black leather with a handkerchief wrapped around the heavy end .
the organization called shaef was then based on a town named versailles outside of paris .
“avanti , ” george said .
but it could be piero della francesca or mantegna .
” inside para told him to sit down .
as the bull lowered his head to hook , fuentes leaned backward , his arms came together and rose ,
i dressed slowly , sitting on the bed .
then i will play bull for you with the chair held before my head .
then when he ' s groggy he fouls him .
" have a cigarette , " he said .
and knees sharply and minutely , he heard them coming around the house .
" " didn ' t i !
i hope no one has been too worried .
" " i say , he did hurt pedro romero , " brett said .
' ' think about your fenders , sir .
he couldn’t keep him out with the left hand now .
two hands so that they gave no reflection , and was observing from the shadow in the angle of the
but i could look it up .
“you only go on one road .
” “very good , ” said cipriani .
maybe she will .
" do you want to keep it on ?
it was four and then he remembered the man who had the fox to sell when they had walked into
' ' i killed four ducks .
why don ' t you start living your life in paris ?
' then calling in that feeble , clowning falsetto , ' kayti .
what would you like me to say ?
he’s got grub for two weeks easy and he’s got his rifle and young littless went with him .
copyright © _num_ by simon & schuster inc .
” “can we go in after him now ?
the arc-light shone through the leaves of the trees in the square , and underneath the trees was an s
" " lawrence ' s book deals with arabia , i believe .
' except heavies being used tactically .
nick went back and lay down with his face in the blanket by the fire .
“how many did you get , onie ?
" get the sandwiches made and a bottle of wine .
some interlocked to make a solid shadow on the brown forest floor .
" as a mark of confidence .
of his pocket .
“listen , ” said the manager .
the masai said something else and scratched one leg with the other .
” “that’s healthy .
eyes , leaning forward , the long pole sticking out before and behind in a sharp angle under his right
no nothing .
zurito was saying something to him .
” “me , too , ” nick said .
except that resin wine at lunch .
it was a shame not to have gone to fontan’s—but in a little while i was asleep .
' let us play that you are you and i am me .
" " but you don ' t pedal it .
he decided that he could beat anyone if he wanted to badly enough and he decided that it was bad
" " there ' s plenty if you can pay for it .
you could see his fins out wide like purple wings and the purple stripes across the brown .
on the leaves in the brush from the start .
holding him near the tail , hard to hold , alive , in his hand , he whacked him against
there was a grapple for an anchor on the skiff and i cut it off and went overboard and down
by dinner she was fairly drunk and after a bottle of wine at dinner she was usually drunk enough to
she looked as though there were nothing on earth she would not look at like that , and really she
i knew they wouldn’t make him drunk now ; not pouring into all that fear .
i don ' t smoke , sir .
it ' s mostly been written already , " mr .
so was mike .
" don ' t you think i ' m right , jake ?
the mules came through the gate in a rush , the whips snapping , bells jangling and the young bull
" " what about the pain ?
she looked quite beautiful .
' ' the baron alvarito was here looking for you .
then they saw it was ice and they rose , climbing .
who ordered that one ?
distinguished consideration—and it would be a damn sight easier than having to go through this emotional trash .
in badajoz , we have been sacked and pillaged and our women violated by the english , the french and
the hills , and after i read the paper through i sat there and looked out at the country and
her hand was steady enough to lift it after that first sip .
" she took another drink .
” “not for bed though .
watched .
' ' i wouldn ' t know , ' the colonel said .
' the boatman asked in italian .
they were firing straight at us and there were the twin flashes , then the throaty , short bung-bung of
he offered him a water bottle with cold tea .
when that persevering traveller , mungo park , was at one period of his course fainting in the vast wilderness
” “we will bring beer .
sweating heavy and he’d just be dogging it along with his eyes on my back , but when he’d catch
how did you think ?
a cloud of dust that blew together and made one , and below , across the flat , long streams
putting the springfield across my knees i noticed that there was rust on the barrel .
mademoiselle hobin , i ' ve known her for a very long time .
not winded and discomposed but smoothly worn down .
débine-toi maintenant .
” he looked at me a moment and i noticed his eyes were a grayish-yellow and that they did not
_ _num_ st soldier_--i was surprised how he acted .
” “forty , ” nick said .
' ' i ' m awfully glad you got him , ' i told karl at the mouth of his
to the customer , and the other side filled in and kept as a stub .
" " soldier bathlett was out here wukking with you for a while , wasn ' t he ?
i looked in at the iruña for the gang and they were not there , so i walked on around
" good .
his right arm , held half-way down , the triangular iron point facing the bull .
we each had an aguardiente and paid forty centimes for the two drinks .
manuel noticed the way the banderillas hung down on his left shoulder and the steady sheen of blood from zurito’s
it was fine weather and pretty nice-looking country .
” “ay dount think theys aneh dainjah een a house , ” the authority repeated .
" " let me cover you over .
' the current is not stable .
juma was so drunk we could not wake him .
" your friend , ole andreson , isn ' t going to come .
“the eleventh .
he had come close to lying twice himself and had held it up and merely exaggerated .
you know what ' s the trouble with you ?
“i guess he don’t feel well .
but it must have seemed like the wrong career to him when they finished up on that hill above the
more conceited than leclerc .
“put it away , ” he said .
m ' cola would kill anyone who said you didn ' t .
kibo has me too .
let any one finish them as they like .
i was too tired to get the skiff aboard and the sun was pretty low .
but it was a sloppy way to fish .
i looked around at the back of the car .
it goes to my head .
we call it lucky if it’s tear gas .
“how is your dad ?
walcott hit him twice .
does it look too wild ?
thaw put in the action anyway .
where we cut across to save distance from the trail , we saw , less than a hundred yards away
to stand in front of the board where they’d post what kircubbin paid .
“let’s go , ” he said .
with that other thing .
” “let’s get back to camp , ” nick said .
" " don ' t be sentimental .
as he looked down into it he saw the red sifting of the plankton in the dark water and the
he comported himself as a man three times on his fiftieth birthday .
' sit down , alvarito .
“one time i went out with papa and he shot a jack-rabbit just a little bit and i shot it
i pray all night about it .
she bloody well _may_ charge too .
of his lower jaw .
" says soldier .
" " oh , that ' s all right .
but i know i’m sick of you .
" i didn ' t know sharks had such handsome , beautifully formed tails .
it was a skull as high as david’s chest and white from the sun and the rain .
' ' yes , ' said the colonel .
to keep them out of india because they feared another mutiny .
he looked at the price on the wine card : eleven francs swiss .
he felt tired from arguing .
it is impossible .
maybe it was all goofy , ' i thought , letting the unbelief come in as a comfort .
brett laughed .
please take me .
“you’re very merry , aren’t you ?
twice the police arrested us and once the government .
the little man came toward him slowly , stepping flat-footed forward , his left foot stepping forward , his right
i checked on the aperture in the sight being clean , cleaned my glasses and wiped the sweat from my
they are afraid to be alone in their beliefs and no woman would love any of them enough so that
but when the country had been lumbered off he had stayed and bought farming land .
” “i thought marijuana was the opium of the poor , ” frazer said .
i didn’t say anything to him .
" as i went down-stairs i heard bill singing , " irony and pity .
you don ' t have to believe it .
a sword with his christmas money .
" christ , " he said , " i might as well go .
" " i went to notre dame with wayne b .
there were two hooks attached to a leader on each rod .
but it wasn ' t clear .
i don ' t know .
" " am i getting soused ?
profound personal relief to turn back .
' good night .
“he didn’t want to drink with me , after he knew about his wife , ” said the innkeeper .
" sent him for champagne .
folds in the sand with his slippered foot .
" don ' t let ' s go there , " brett said .
” “you have youth , confidence , and a job , ” the older waiter said .
“what animals were they ?
" " he ' s a damned good-looking boy , " i said .
but _you_ don ' t drink anything .
if they’re wrong i hear them wrong and i can do them over and work on them until i get
it was not unpleasant .
" the girl looked at the bead curtain .
brett was in bed .
" this isn ' t chicago .
then sentence them to chain gangs and contract them out to the turpentine and lumber outfits .
the paris part came earlier and he was not frightened of it except when she had gone off with some
it ' d bore you .
when you talk to me you never finish your sentences at all .
“well , hare , ” she said .
if he comes he ' s got to give me a shot .
anybody can cut you with a razor .
don ' t you think that ' s bright of me to figure that out ?
he was past everything now and he sailed the skiff to make his home port as well and as intelligently
" " you can call me alice , " the big whore said and then she began to shake again
so someone would know about such things .
that was before .
when he held them back up in the water they looked like live fish .
all that the train passed through looked as though it were before breakfast .
and i can see the portrait .
“i am not a politician .
we had some beer under a tree in shade that seemed liquid cool after the white glare of a sun
i am as happy as i ever am .
i never heard of him .
, she asked him , holding close , ' do you still love me in the cold , hard venice
" you ' re wonderfully sober , " i said .
mouth of hortons creek .
the only times i used to ride through it was in a camion .
a hospital .
' you ' ve got an awful lot of problems on your hands .
" george said .
into the grass and he would be pop ' s from then on unless i could keep the rifle when
for real gambling you need luck .
the chinks weren’t going to .
he’d been pretty fast all right and he knew it .
” nick hesitated .
' the worst part was he knew it .
taste it starting to go , but it wouldn’t justify making a row about , when al wagner came in
you could think and i would convey your orders .
” “down by the lake .
it was your father’s suggestion that we talk the matter over .
he wallowed down the stream , above his knees in the current , through the fifty yards of shallow water
“good , ” i said , all the fine inner quiet gone now and the hollow that gambling makes come
' ' i think that is soundest , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
” “if we keep on driving long enough we’ll get to it .
his face has still got that awful drawn look .
" i wouldn ' t be a drawback to him .
' ' that was garrick shooting his mouth off .
while nick walked through the little stretch of meadow alongside the stream , trout had jumped high out of water
“i haven’t the faintest idea , ” his father said .
good-night , nickie .
" the train comes in forty minutes .
he had to sit down five times before he reached his shack .
i can wake up and think about that any night .
i left everything and i went wherever you wanted to go and i’ve done what you wanted to do .
after a while claude came back wheeling the two vélos .
there had not been a real one for a long time .
we’re just waiting to be pulled out .
i’m fine .
the people all are gone .
and the gold of his sides before he swung him over the side and into the boat .
but , nick , boy , you certainly didn’t feed her too much yesterday .
don’t you pay any attention to what happens .
only black spots and splatters on the short grass , one by one the brother , garrick , and the
bring it right out .
" you have blinded me !
nick floated down gently against the bottom .
the brown water discolored the sea and as the waves thinned and cleared in breaking , the light came through
“my enrique .
” “how long you know him ?
“i don’t think so , ” he said .
she had no stockings on .
” “i can give you a double room for seven dollars .
rommel might .
” “you mean before you decided to do something practical and cut off your hair ?
the maid looked up at her .
he also had figured where they had to fight before they reached the siegfried .
” “that’s all right .
' montgomerys .
' ' tell by the size .
please let us sleep a little while .
“no hay derecho , ” he said with dignity .
“good-by and good luck .
" what does he say ?
“we’d take him fishing to the ’voix tomorrow .
" all right , " jack says , " i ' ll play you once more to see who pays
“how do you feel , jack ?
the distant river and then struck down the hillside away from the road .
if you love horses you’ll get horse-shit , and if you love eagles you’ll get eagle-shit .
but i’m not afraid .
" you ' re not a moron .
" you do not love one another .
renata .
“she wouldn’t eat anything and she wouldn’t sleep at all .
" " was she with a friend of mine ?
chapter _num_ in the morning i walked down the boulevard to the rue soufflot for coffee and brioche .
” “we couldn’t .
finally the bull was too tired from so much bad sticking and folded his knees and lay down and one
what ' s the situation ?
then we lost this brother i speak of on the grappa and i remained .
' ' whatever that is , ' the girl said .
' ' i ' ll look all right .
don ' t they know how you get to walk that way ?
” “i didn’t see him at all , ” frank said .
this place is an example of that romanticism .
" " no , " nick said .
" mind you ' re at the select around ten .
you can’t expect to find the people still there .
cape when skinning out the head-skin .
” “oh , yes , nickie .
' if a man has a conscience , the colonel thought , he might think about air-power some time .
“i want a doctor , ” the nigger told him .
coats .
on the table had frightened and disgusted her .
droop had handed me the springfield and i slipped my arm through the sling and sighting , the buff now
the grasshopper , you know , what we call the grasshopper in america , is really a locust .
” “don’t start thinking that way so soon , ” nick said .
that was all any one had said until they reached the motor car .
outside the old walls .
car .
i could learn it really well , he thought , and then i ' d have that .
the nigger made a howling noise and shuffling with his hands on the deck picked up the whetstone from under
there ' s no reason to tell them now .
the camp had not been visited .
they came in through the back gate out of the woods , eddy carrying the long cross-cut saw .
” “you’re a tough one , aren’t you ?
had said it was freshly washed .
you’re perfectly all right .
" they sat together at a table that was close against the wall near the door of the café and
” he asked the waitress .
in bull-fighting they speak of the terrain of the bull and the terrain of the bull-fighter .
to hell with those heavy guns .
he knows i split the work , or more , coming out .
” “yes , ” said paco .
” “je veux aller tout seul , ” andré shrilled .
" " i didn ' t stay to find out .
swept , with the manager who was an old friend and who was now very pleased with the literature we
“how do you do , comrades , ” said baldy , bowing .
“i don’t think you will now .
' hello .
i slipped and he had me down kneeling on my chest and choking me with both hands like he was
i remember getting the dictionary and asking m ' cola to ask the boy if he had a sister and
" hey !
it certainly was wonderful what a drink would do to him and how quick .
when the old man finished talking the two men came closer and we shook hands .
i always understood we were the first to use the machines .
zurito said something to him .
music and the debutantes , or the waldorfs men’s bar if they let girls in .
“here’s where he went in , ” wilson said .
' bulls ?
water stood in pools on the gravel paths .
" " all right , you go .
the young man saw himself in the mirror behind the bar .
he wouldn ' t sleep at night and he ' d get up in the morning feeling that way ,
when i awoke in the morning i expected i would be a saint , but i wasn’t .
the lid came up and coffee and grounds ran down the side of the pot .
" no , thank you , " said the waiter and went out .
the shooter , who was not a colonel now , nor anything but a gun handler , rose in the
" you must get well fast for there is much that i can learn and you can teach me everything
" we went up the street , past the whitewashed stone houses , families sitting in their doorways watching us
' who would have imagined it ?
” “let’s be cheerful , nickie , ” his sister said .
“so long , ” said ole andreson .
“you think of the bull but you do not think of the horns .
" we were there on our honeymoon .
" " i would take a nap , nicolo , " paravicini said .
they said there was another one but i didn ' t see him .
about it .
they have to write to keep up their establishments , their wives , and so on , and they write
they always hunted together .
' do you think that pock-marked jerk is really a writer ?
' he asked the woman .
the detective holding his gun in his right hand jerked down hard with his left hand and the prisoner slipped
" harris asked .
” “that’ll depend , ” max said .
kamau , sitting in the car , had seen a kudu bull pass a hundred yards away .
to settle into david .
they would never suck him in that way again .
” “he don’t sleep .
by drinking so much that he blunted the edge of his perceptions , by laziness , by sloth , and
after i ' d gotten more womanly , of course .
” “i can tell it , ” roger said .
for an hour after dinner every one , all the good-looking girls , the officers from the garrison , all
" an accident that he fired eight shots at you and hit you twice , there ?
” “can’t we be happy now ?
“have you got cigarettes ?
there was nothing conceited or braggartly about him .
i could have in my time .
that was where our fishing began .
he thanked me very much , but his mind was already looking forward to walking over the pass .
she said she thought it would be good for him .
” “better than anything .
“j’aime beaucoup shooter les canards .
the concierge was talking down-stairs .
“you ain’t human , ” the nigger said .
friends again .
“that’s part of the plan .
” “well , dick owes me a lot of money for pulling his squaw through pneumonia and i guess he
if he lived by a lie he should try to die by it .
” “well , watch out he doesn’t shoot you , then .
but i would like to know .
they didn’t know we didn’t want them , but we didn’t have nothing to do with them , and after
" no , " the old man said .
“how much are the rooms ?
” “what sort of a day will it be ?
“take her in slow .
' ' continue , ' said the colonel .
george was on the bed , reading .
you have decided on how to outwit the poor animals ?
i have to think about things now the rest of my life .
' the colonel took the drink arnaldo , the glass-eyed waiter , made him .
he only dreamed of places now and of the lions on the beach .
extended to the open out in a steep sort of grassy basin at the upper end where it was backed
but the effort of talking american seemed to have tired him .
' whisky finish .
_wine-seller_--no , i didn ' t take any interest in it , lootenant .
they only want the young ones .
it made no sound against the piles of the bridge .
" " well , i got to keep bright boy amused .
you chaps are brown .
" fontan asked .
” “i am very glad to see you , nicolo .
get the man that held it .
i do not know .
, in a short time he was backing a review of the arts .
the line will lie flat on the water .
could see it steaming .
cohn went back against the wall .
" i was lucky to get him instead of dolphin .
" i wouldn ' t marry him if he doesn ' t want to .
recover the ground lost so that the positions after the battle were the same as before except for the presence
' ' please don ' t be cruel .
” “do you know what a lengua larga is ?
there were remedies which cured this and it was well worth going through for what i had seen and where
it is not france , he thought .
i never saw such a horse .
' i never go there when we are not together .
that you have not lost anything else ?
” “why don’t you say you love me ?
" cohn smiled again and sat down .
, being very shy and a thoroughly nice boy , he never fought except in the gym .
hopkins gave away his .
sable .
both sides just below jack ' s ribs .
“we must go and say good-by to the fontans , ” i said .
i was sitting on the seat opposite the door to the toilet .
” “i’ll work too .
he cannot go down deep to die where i cannot bring him up .
' painters ?
his mouth was open , his head was tipped back and his hands were together in his lap .
” “she throws a little high at this range , ” red said .
in all that remains of my life i must work .
she said it was all right and we were all right again looking at the buff with m ' cola
manuel thought .
” “are you glad ?
a cornada right through the back .
and it had very deep and tricky channels in the pebbles and shingle when it was shallow .
' it isn ' t indicated ; in fact it is definitely contra-indicated in increased intra-colour and intra-cranial pressure .
" there was a sign with a picture of an s-turn and svolta pericolosa .
he should have killed himself last week .
” nick had cut up away from the stream into the edge of the timber and they were walking in
or ever was .
“they were going to kill ole andreson , ” george said .
they have all been captured by treachery , the colonel thought , and their claws are pegged .
the others try to save their souls with what they write .
much they had finally , always , with the corrosion of the quarrelling , killed what they had together .
' a wanderobo , ' pop said .
” er the waiter was gone roger took helena’s hand under the table .
he could see it now plainly .
“i was engaged in contemplating a terrific spectacle and i was ob-livious of the fact that i had any wingmen
no , i ' ll be in the chapel .
we’d hooked that fish and lost him without waking eddy up .
' ' it could be damned interesting .
” “tell her they have a touchdown already .
" " thank you , " said the gentleman .
” “listen , littless , don’t ever talk about killing and remember i never talked about killing .
he heard the stick break and the line begin to rush out over the gunwale of the skiff .
chaps never know anything , do they ?
ps _num_ e _num_ a _num_ _num_ _num_ ′ .
“well , ” he says .
along , we had hunted all through the timbered flat and come out to the edge of the plain where
black like the buff .
buen hombre .
” manuel lit it .
’ “so i said , ‘but it’s all right really .
' ' eaten and slept and eaten and slept .
mike had a bottle of fundador .
is come three and three .
icicles out of both eyes and he didn’t look really very good .
“now will you take us over to that boat , ” he said smiling .
it came out of the long spouts in two streams into the big cup .
the stems dry .
' the girl asked the colonel .
“how was it up above ?
i’ve made them up about you for twelve years .
" too hot .
but i will try it once more .
there is a little river that comes in when the rains open the bar across the mouth .
he says what happens if after shooting you , this man shoots a woman or a child ?
charcoal .
“take the gun and the bags in the house , nick , and bring me a paper , ” he
down the corridor and those entitled to use them gave due warning beforehand and water was heated and towels laid
' ' you learn fast about things you do not know , ' the girl said .
strange country foreword when papa and marty first rented in _num_ the finca vigía which was to be his home
a dispute about nothing .
when the detectives wanted to cut up their meat they used the fork in their left hand and that pulled
” “i guess everything reminds you of something , ” the boy said .
” “he can’t hit you .
have fights to love each other ?
" he is making the far part of his circle now , " he said .
he was reading again .
" " tell him bulls have no balls !
then he did not hear it .
" this is pretty good , " jack says .
you want jerry and me to talk to them ?
she had wakened and spoken straight from sleep .
" " you were in a kosher convent .
so i told him the fellow would be sent on ship and be most severely punished .
' ' it isn ' t like any of those .
call the shot but what we were getting into now was bad .
” “i thought it out , ” she said .
what kind do you think they’ll have ?
' ' but what about the great leaders we heard about like the generals montgomery and patton ?
” “isn’t that lovely ?
he was lying perfectly still but every once in a while his eyes would open .
“what did you do this afternoon ?
; yet the fiesta kept up without any pause .
" good man .
' ve never seen a bull in the hills .
then , when we started to get in the car he broke away and started to climb up through the
the right and lay in a chamois shooting patch so the gun butt would never catch .
' should we pick our gondola or have them bring one to the landing ?
" " they can ' t say things like that about mike , " bill said .
offered to buy me a drink .
bottles of regal beer they had forgotten to drink , helena was still asleep .
' ' did you reclassify many ?
” the adjutant called .
he liked me and we got along fine together ; and he liked hogan , but after a while soldier
“it makes me nervous .
how good it felt !
’ then you know when the cardinals would come to bat it was simply dreadful .
' that rhino shot has ruined him .
' ' i make them , too , ' the colonel told her .
' ' it isn ' t polite to doubt what your daughter says when she is old enough not to
we came out of the station .
” the husband went on reading , lying propped up with the two pillows at the foot of the bed
he was also modest , simple and friendly .
a bird in a gilded cage .
“somewhere .
won ' t you stay and eat some supper ?
' ' you know he ' s a damned good tracker , too , and what kind of a bird
" why don ' t you try to go to sleep ?
in the stream .
' ' i can ' t make out except that you cross the plain , go around that mountain and
no one would steal from the old man but it was better to take the sail and the heavy lines
" " i ' d like to buy some if there ' s any place they sell it , "
by surprise .
” “what is there ?
" i moved him , " the old man said .
' come here , ' i called to him .
” “long time ago , ” mrs .
none of it was important now .
since a long time we had all felt good about karl ' s rhino .
please hold me very tightly so we can be a part of each other for a little while .
but you must not make it too easy and you must not count .
the silver side of the fish , he raised the club high and brought it down heavy and slamming onto
go on forward now and fasten the hatch from the outside .
" " i have no great use for the leg .
but he was such a calm , strong fish and he seemed so fearless and so confident .
” “am i really your girl ?
" mike went out .
the gondola pulled up between the stakes on the far bank of the canal and the colonel watched the black-clad
the little devil , he thought , i wonder if he lied to me .
" we ' re none of us sober , " i said .
wings , that were his pectoral fins , spread wide and all his wide lavender stripes showing .
claimed nigger violated contract .
the weeds waved in the current and the fish hung in the shelter of the weeds and rose to insects
tell me that .
it was a long time since nick had looked into a stream and seen trout .
” “but you practice self-criticism and you talk like a book .
there’s too much timber and they’re too far away .
that ' s the terrible part .
' ' tell him i ' ll be in the bar .
he laid his rod down , moved along to the shady end of the log and took the sandwiches out
” i asked the innkeeper .
" " come on out to the kitchen .
a punishment for all hunters .
the stream .
there was nothing much to see anyway .
" brett ' s gone off with the bull-fighter chap .
" maybe he ' s asleep , " i said .
not just made up and i know exactly what he said to me .
” “where did you get that one ?
a good right hand shot at him .
then her boilers must have burst and that must have been what made those pieces that came out .
” “listen , ” doc fischer said .
old magic of the city and its beauty .
were built long , narrow , and springy , so he seemed to walk on tip-toe , felt under his
leaning back , inciting the bull with the banderillas , fuentes jumped , both feet off the ground .
“i know he is not .
she has been so good and she was not built to be good .
they went to montrouge and the porte d ' orleans and we went directly to bas meudon and secured the
with all those who need a light for the night .
” “don’t drink that , ” she said .
" " off and on for a hell of a long time .
should we rejoin the ladles ?
“it’s all right , dear , ” she said .
she put her hand in nick ' s pocket .
fix yourself on that figure .
you hang around all the time .
' ' don ' t tell any one if you did , ' pop said .
were forced to the surface in their panic .
mike thought brett had best sit high up for her first time , and cohn wanted to sit with them
he lifted him clear of the water , a heavy half circle in the net , the net dripping ,
' they ' ll never believe you .
the tip where he had notched it lightly .
" i ' m tired all the time .
i love you now .
" yes , " said the american lady .
" " why did you come back here ?
“i’ve had a lot of time to think while i was waiting around for you .
damned if i’d ever run liquor from cuba .
he was smoking a cigar again .
it was the way you would want your girl painted if tintoretto were still around and , if he were
you can’t make them move if they won’t go .
" " i am , " i said .
" i ' ll call up and have them get a taxi .
, and it certainly improved his nose .
and the oranges .
i’ll love to .
” “i had lew fighting in philadelphia , ” john said .
the heel of his right foot lifted gently as all of him leaned behind the two loads in the chambers
" gentlemen who invented pharmacy .
body that he expected of her .
" i ' m tired of it .
he came in with no hat on and was very excited and frightened but determined .
his eyes fixed on it while bill poured .
“i plan to , ” said al .
“i it a good curve ?
was too fantastic to deal with .
" " it ' s a lie , " peroxide said proudly .
" you weren ' t bored , were you ?
' i ' m sorry , daughter .
when i made you get rid of your little secretary on the magazine i ought to have known you '
' ' no , let ' s get him .
villalta , his hand up at the crowd and the bull roaring blood , looking straight at villalta and his
" " put some water in it , " i said .
“you were one of the ones that framed him with promises from the association .
he says i have no papers to admit .
they ' re not as smart as we think .
' ' i wonder , ' pop said .
” “you can save that sarcasm .
the next time he nosed at the steer and then the two of them trotted over to the other bull
frank asked the young fellow , who was wearing heavy oregon cities and a black hat and was shaved clean
romero was close enough so the bull could see him .
you could feel the bullet under the skin and m ' cola made a slit and cut it out .
isn ' t that literary , though ?
a goat hopped up on one of the carts and then to the roof of the diligence .
again without thinking of it .
" " you ' ll have a nice place when you go back .
captain , ” said mr .
and i know gambling’s bohemianism too .
of his right arm in his left hand and placed it between his knees and then pulled himself up by
if they did not lift the shelling when it started , the colonel , then a lieutenant , often thought
my choice was to go there to find him beyond all people .
finally , out level .
they knew who had shot their fathers , their relatives , their brothers , and their friends when the versailles
to the east and hearing about it while you drive away from it .
this is a wicked stretch of country .
in a jam .
, ' p .
" after about thirty minutes or so hogan and i went upstairs .
” “well , corbett’ll pick him , ” hogan says .
, drunker than ever .
” “three hundred pesetas .
the further west you go the straighter and the easier it becomes .
' but you can puncture the old man quick enough when he gets started .
under the arcades and made pools of water in the square , and the streets wet and dark and deserted
carabineer said yes , but not many .
" this is a hell of a place , " bill said .
" you ' ve got to help me .
it was cool and dusky , and we stood in front of a long wooden counter with two women behind
how after this box had been given to me by a friend on his return from persia i had only
in back , the four picadors , mounted , holding their steel-tipped pushpoles erect in the half-dark of the corral
then he put his knife down and gutted him with his right hand , scooping him clean and pulling the
“you mean where to land them ?
to obtain a copy of the young doctor’s friend and guide , and use it .
” “i cannot read it .
i was beginning to feel awfully good and karl was very cheerful at the prospect of this new miraculous country
one man was badly cogido .
i wonder how fast she made it .
i lay awake thinking and my mind jumping around .
i said it for a joke .
' i suppose it would and i withdraw the suggestion .
“is it very dangerous there ?
“better take your shoes off , ” bill said .
the young gentleman took out his pocketook and gave him a ten-lira note .
“the hell with it , ” said al .
the dancing kept up , the drinking kept up , the noise went on .
his father saw as a big-horn ram or as an eagle sees , literally .
“no sir .
" he tipped the table so that all the beers and the dish of shrimps went over in a crash
we shut the door .
the attack was about to start and we were waiting for the planes to come over and commence the bombardment
“it seems like all kinds of people come by here now .
and it’s been a long time .
" " it ' s the humidity , " bill said .
" " oh , well , " i said .
“do you think you’ll remember it ?
the place they had started from .
' ' what did we use to drink ?
, cap , ” the man said .
that son of a crutting brakeman .
while you were gone and i paid over six hundred pesos in my own money and now i need it
“you’ll be a damn sight sicker when walcott gets through with you .
he took an old solingen clasp knife , such as german poachers carry , from his pocket .
” “yes , darling , ” said francis macomber .
” “still i have no real confidence in the integrity of basilio alvarez .
” “it is my mother , ” he said .
and perspiring until he found it .
real memories except having your tubes out and when you started c .
it makes men into bullies which is the first step towards cowardice ; true cowardice , i mean .
i ' ve been a sorry son of a bitch many times .
it is a big school of dolphin , he thought .
i read it .
the two men at the counter took a look at him .
bared his teeth in anger .
' ' i ' m not a man of the mountains .
' tell him i am b ' wana fisi , the hyena slaughterer , ' i told dan .
chap who did me in .
' ' in our army you obey like a dog , ' the colonel explained .
they saw him each time they made a trip and even when they did not look at him they heard
quickly and as well as you can .
“wipe out this officer’s eyes with alcohol and water .
she doesn’t know us and she thought we were going to kid her about her singing , maybe .
following the curve , a point of light under the arcs .
' ' charo and the trackers said there was another bull with this one .
we were on his right .
against a handkerchief .
they were going to cut off his pigtail .
” “who do you suppose that little guy was that talked as though he knew so much ?
you could do it .
and then you killed the men who came wading across the marshes , holding their rifles above the water and
i ' ve got certain obligations to her .
" " were you really ?
the sky , flying white and slow , their long legs stretched behind them .
littless had brought four old flour sacks and he was proud of her .
adjutant !
“why don’t people be honest and decent and make a decent honest living ?
' ' any time now .
he has ridden out worse tempests than this .
then says , ' go ahead .
eat that dust , and karl and i out on the plain in the too much sun and dust had
' i will .
while the water was heating in the pot he took an empty bottle and went down over the edge of
" she spoke french , but it was only french occasionally , and there were many english words and some
“i’ve never seen one , ” the man drank his beer .
" " i ' ve been here long enough .
then , in a little while , coming out of the cove , i see a boat come toward us
out in the center of the ring , under the lights , manuel was kneeling , facing the bull ,
shower from the mountains , and in the morning we were up before daylight and had climbed up to the
” “my name’s john , ” mr .
” the detective jumped up and jerked the other prisoner over on the seat .
she looks like a small wild animal , he thought , and she sleeps like one .
now it is necessary to get to the grindstone again .
" we saw that one at a funeral coming into town .
the wire must have slipped on the great hill of his back .
' ' god knows .
” “you might as well stay here a while , ” paravicini said .
" what are you going to do about it ?
' wonderful , ' he said .
i ' ve never been able to help anything .
“now manolita , stop pulling my leg .
_ _num_ d soldier_--you been out here too long .
another boy who walked with us sometimes and made us five wore a black silk handkerchief across his face because
on with the porters .
” freedman just looks at him .
” he showed them .
hills through the trees , coming toward the salt , had halted at that exploding , clanking sound .
“it’s right up the road .
the logs had been lost from the big log booms that were towed down the lake to the mill by
“you will finish up .
it was supposed to be the best post .
the back seat .
” “there are a few working on the part of the flats that only comes out when we have this
” the nigger raised himself up to look .
” “well , ” said hogan , “they’re not such fools .
and i’ll try to be good to him .
i loved my old man so much .
" the old man said and he drove the blade between the vertebrae and the brain .
we ain’t got to .
“but i have some .
" " it was really about a quarter of an hour , " mike objected .
' ' i don ' t get involved with people when i ' m drunk .
the spaniards shouted when he came in .
' ' to our leader , ' the colonel said .
he looked at john asleep .
“is there anything we didn’t get on the radio ?
" " i ' m not interested in bull-fighters .
" that makes it worse , of course .
get your t .
” “if he comes .
" jack says and skips away down the floor , slapping the rope hard .
out in the plaza they were stringing electric-light wires to light the plaza for the fiesta .
” he could not take his own advice because he was killed two months later .
" " mangez ici .
you do it in a week as easily , but it is not so impressive .
" trust you .
there , where the old man had pointed , was a very big sable track , the hoof marks spread
it gave me a good feeling .
" what are you going to kill him for , then ?
she pretended to be indignant at our going off and leaving her alone but she was only teasing us .
_ he made you feel what it was like .
he is probably a commendatore , he thought .
we were ashamed and could do nothing about it .
they were nearly as long as the fingers of the old man and they had razor-sharp cutting edges on both
forum writers talk to the point , are possessed of humor and wit .
he knew he could choke it because he was tired enough .
“you order her , ” said macomber coldly .
i am perfectly happy .
took me by the arm and walked close beside me .
do you agree ?
' ' the hell with tea .
' ' we ought to be in a book , ' the colonel said .
as interpreter , and finally embraced his theory patriotically as a whole and , i believed , by logic ,
night long , every one along the corridor heard the russian .
“what’s your name , splayzey ?
go down for meat .
in a mounting , stubborn rage , not making a correction but shooting exactly for the same place in the
was reading _spanish gold_ , by george a .
wood dust and long splintered pieces of wood hung like javelins in the tree that had been struck by lightning
' i ' ve been hearing about them for months .
' remember that ; never .
i guess everything reminds you of something “it’s a very good story , ” the boy’s father said .
i handed him my next to the last pack of cigarettes and he took two .
the man waved it away .
zurito sat there , his feet in the box-stirrups , his great legs in the buckskin-covered armor gripping the horse
” “feel of it , ” jack says .
“he looks as though he’d been hit plenty of times .
” “oh let’s .
m ' cola handed me the shotgun and i shook my head .
two meat courses , vegetables , salad , and dessert and fruit .
' ' i ' ll try , ' the girl said .
" i really have no rank .
" " good , i detest flamands .
his going made an awful row i heard , and i think that was where frances lost him , because
, and as i stopped she came out .
" we called the waiter , paid , and started to walk through the town .
" " up to burguete to fish .
“feel good , ” said john .
' ' yes , many .
“sit down .
so that when you go in a place where indians have lived you smell them gone and all the empty
he said two young fellows gave it to him about eleven o’clock .
i lit the lamp beside the bed , turned off the gas , and opened the wide windows .
the drums pounded and the pipe music was shrill , and everywhere the flow of the crowd was broken by
the turks had come steadily and lumpily and he had seen the skirted men running and the of icers shooting
he stuck one of the ski poles into the floor .
doctor wilcox was short , dark and carried an indexed book .
place that would be defensible with boats , and where the visigoths and the lombards and the other bandits couldn
“if i’m uncomfortable i’ll go in .
" what a fish , " he said .
“shut to hell up the both of you , ” said the sergeant .
her head so that her sea wet hair swung against his shoulder .
the fire flamed brightly in the wind and we sat and watched the moon rise and listened to the hyenas
he slipped a bill into the second waiter ' s hand .
the time , that he could not go to sleep without them .
' please tell me some picturesque .
not agree .
we were all laughing .
those damned tracks all the time--what if i never see one ?
” “i always swing on the noise of the trap .
" you oughtn ' t to drink pernod if you ' re sick .
phrases about the extent of the cold , or the force of the wind , that he could ordinarily have
as soon as he saw it he knew where the story had come from .
silliness of it .
” “making a picture .
' ' tell the waiters if you like .
turn your hair sideways once on top of this bridge and let it blow obliquely .
as nick watched , a mink crossed the river on the logs and went into the swamp .
" were you in the army ?
the driver put the car in gear and went down the street .
she was right up close to the port hole and i hit the glass twice and i didn’t even crack
with an ax .
whoever or whatever of our friends that will be afoot at that hour .
not to think about it .
“a negroni , signor barone ?
” “the jews are a thing of the past , ” the man behind the counter told him .
the finest .
” “i wish we had knockout drops , ” his sister said loyally .
he had just felt death come by again .
stories .
” he left the sack with the birds and the berry pails with littless and went well upstream .
brett was damned good-looking .
“don’t go near him .
it blew our scent every direction .
" then the chicken .
he was a nigger that never thought much of any of us .
then he went on , not smiling , " and you don ' t really want-- " the major paused
“monsieur a soif—moi aussi .
brigades all the time so i am probably a spy .
it was his car but he knew i drove it better than he did .
he pointed and around a curve in the bank i saw the head of a rhino with a long ,
very tanned .
that night after supper we were in the tent .
” “everyone must wait for the seguridad .
three of the men to be hanged were negroes .
" " anything more ?
the perspiration out of my glasses .
" pa , can i go to the show ?
be a good chap .
mine i must improvise to his because of his great size .
” “i’ll go up with you .
“they go to church , then they fight with knives all the way home and kill each other all day
this was flattering and pleasing .
' ' please , please , please .
then returned to find the two men and put them on the trail .
“i guess we won’t have coffee , ” he said .
all night long on a moonlight night you hear the shots .
' ' not till the end when it was over .
" " we must .
“you don’t want to take the ventral fin out , ” he said .
we ate sandwiches and crackers with sandwich filling on them , and were thirsty and tired , and glad when
' ' everything is known in venice anyway .
“she’s blowing , ” nick said .
“but the concierge , and the smell of the concierge , and her practicality and determination hit my despair as
he sat down again , coughing .
they can’t know that much at the age they marry , he thought .
it was made of bronze and glistened in the rain .
“there isn’t going to be any mrs .
" brett ' s got a bull-fighter , " he said .
had hit him .
a jewish boy with nothing , he stormed the country with his talent , and his rhetoric .
but i could not sleep .
the bull had gone clean up in the air with the charge .
don ' t you feel better to be loved ?
his ears were curled in the same way theirs were .
" i got to get there for supper .
” “all right , ” i said , “but see you look after it .
' ' whatever you have , ' the colonel said .
for a long time , while the sun rose and the day became hot we drove through what pop had
” johnson asked him .
she had gotten on only just in time .
” “will you promise not to get angry and do anything bad ?
horns , splintering and chipping them like hitting a slate roof , and mrs .
you’ve only known two sound women in your life and you lost them both .
christ , i love it , he said , and i ' m so happy i helped defend it when
" on peut looker .
in , years before i could sell anything in america .
" " you wouldn ' t mind , really ?
deliciously , the other animal sleeping close beside .
" he handed it to me .
stream by the flow of the current .
of the country , and the name of the saloon that he threw his trade to was the pilot .
' b ' wana fell down , ' m ' cola said and imitated me pitching forward .
they would shoot one another .
” “that’s the way to talk .
” “and the spinal cord ?
“or we can go into the café and shake a few rounds of poker dice and you write what it
his right hand .
my class was too old .
a canary for one the train passed very quickly a long , red stone house with a garden and four
women , always drunk on wine and bad marc ; and the children with their noses running in the cold
garrick , the bastard , wearing a large , very floppy , black and white ostrich-plume head-dress .
' the bastard never cleaned it last night after that rain , ' i thought , and , very angry
” “got to go home , ” nick said .
good painters .
” the girl brought the wine in and they had trouble with the cork .
” “to keep from killing twelve other chinks , ” i told him .
' ' i love you much more than before if it were possible .
office .
' did you see him ?
they thought i was hell ' s own shakes of a soldier .
" bill slapped him on the back .
lice is the plural .
it was all dark .
it was the real siren , not the one of the radio .
“i will keep it very carefully , ” harris said .
hotel at _num_ .
there were two lonely looking ticket-houses standing in the square .
' never get near a man shovelling , ' i said in english .
love you , devil .
he knows the game .
sat down to read .
we ate them every day .
do you think we’ll come to the sandwich town pretty soon ?
ahead were the lights of the shanties where the indian bark-peelers lived .
“yes , sir , ” he said .
“i hate that damned noise .
look at rockefeller .
” “i have done so .
he had not eaten since a cup of coffee and a ham sandwich in the station restaurant at st .
i was not trying to sell him .
it was just very clear and bright , and inclined to blur at the edges .
the leather soles of my shoes felt insecure and slippery on the rungs .
” that’s why she came along , nick thought .
" " put some water in that , " i said .
after all , what can they do to you ?
walk all day long .
he cannot marry , " he said angrily .
” “your father was a griffon , ” the wicked lioness said , licking her whiskers .
there was a triangular scar on his cheek-bone .
' that ' s a hell of a big piece of bragging .
" " was i rude enough to him ?
spain had not changed to summer-time , so i was early .
' ' when you do , take your time and make sure of him .
johnson , all right .
” “thanks .
“you’ve made your military service ?
while roger filled the gas and had the water , oil and air checked helena ordered hamburger sandwiches and barbecued
" " if our money comes and you ' re sure you don ' t mind .
if i would buy him a double-tapered line he would pay me when i came down .
" i don ' t give a damn who shot you , but i ' ve got to clear this
' i never could , ' says p .
i tried never to think about it , but it had started to go since , in the nights ,
tell him i ' m ashamed of being a writer .
“i wish you’d worn another sweater .
they laid maera down on a cot and one of the men went out for the doctor .
i don ' t want you to even speak to me .
, or to be hurried .
' it is a little new but exactly as you describe .
” “that’s the way i feel all of the time .
“listen , splayfoot , i remember you very well now .
' in the tent i found p .
he pointed out a spanish boy that works around the docks who is just about gone with the con .
“qu’estce que vous avez comme fusil ?
it ' s just as though it ' s automatic .
” “you know , a funny thing .
" listen , " he said , " to-morrow my nose is so tight on the handle-bars that the only
et aussi une femme qui a vomis sur la table !
maybe not fishing , maybe not sleeping all night .
you really can start it all over now .
“hola , ” he called to the negro under the tree .
" " oh , shut up , mike !
or strangers , he now stared with enjoyment and insolence at the two priests .
you ' re drunk , " brett said .
' is there anything you really want ?
that about him having the lick in the morning ?
“yes , ” he said seriously .
are just a sort of mulch , and even the bones will be some use finally .
“do you cock it first with your thumb ?
" " i see , " said johnson , " and you say you have never been divorced ?
” “you’re three to one to be a saint .
were worn through .
i’ll get twenty-five thousand bucks .
cohn couldn ' t knock him out .
what about all this necking and petting ?
” “let me get it .
car and you will look across and see the man who has brought it to you .
he was sick as hell .
come on back to the hotel .
” he had a dark good-looking face and very dark hands that he moved about when he talked .
' when the _gran maestro_ came over , happy , conspiratorial , and ignoring his ulcers , the colonel asked
i took nothing but an admiral ' s compass because i had a small boat at that time on chesapeake
i doubted this but read the three leaflets and drank the gin and tonic .
the plate said : " the bull ' mariposa ' of the duke of veragua , which accepted _num_ varas
so long .
' ' but when you retire and live here .
they had a new pane of glass in the window that had been shot up and the show case was
the ones i make up are wonderful .
there is no record of any bullfighter having left the luarca for a better or more expensive hotel ; second-rate
" he doesn ' t want you to spread it , " he said .
the man had a shot-gun to shoot any cripples that might be escaping where the dog could not get them
it was very hot on the dam , so i put my worm-can in the shade with the bag ,
there’s a berry patch down below .
" " who ?
" bring me a bottle of sion , please .
" " i ' ll remember it myself , " bill said .
" " three hundred pesetas .
then he picked up the revolver and stood up .
' ' he is well taken care of .
you usually pay the broker in advance and he enters you and clears you .
the town is flooded with it and there’s nobody to buy it .
he thought of all the time in his life he had spent gambling .
' i ' ll show you a place down there where we used to fight when i was a kid
we washed , put on sweaters , and came down-stairs into the dining-room .
very much .
so we sat there , he with his head bent so only the bald top showed , me leaning back
naturally ask , and found he is being treated for i don’t know how to spell the word but it
" you cannot hold us responsible .
across the square the white wicker tables and chairs of the iruña extended out beyond the arcade to the edge
” “did your wingmen muck off ?
in the pack he found a big onion .
" nous avons beaucoup de gibier là-bas .
much now , and thought how , when we first were out , he had very nearly died of fever
" " no , " said madame .
” “bird-shot’d be all right , ” jack says .
“open it up , ” said the detective and stepped back .
it was a long walk home to burguete , and it was dark when we came down across the fields
she laughed at things he said , and turned her brown back in the sun .
" " where ' s hogan ?
thanks awfully .
' i won ' t .
son pays est comme ça .
" " what a damn-fool thing to do .
” “i was , ” roger said .
they were on some errand .
are you awfully hungry ?
" " not out of this , " manuel said .
it was not even very important .
” “you’re not so innocuous .
the boy was a wonderful natural shot but he had worked with him to make him a perfect shot and
” “c’est vrai , ” fontan nodded .
“it’s not going to be a damned bit like the lion , ” wilson told her .
walk to it .
he did not see the fin of the other .
they’d like to have killed him where they killed his friend .
he tapped with his knuckles on the table .
the edge of the cape was wet with blood where it had swept along the bull’s back as he went
” “you’re being cross , ” she said .
then ' mama !
he tied all his own flies .
, and he had gotten the money i sent him from paris and renewed my subscriptions , so that was
if you are a foreigner , i am sorry .
“show it to me when you want to or ask me about any trouble , ” his father said .
although some prefer the radio , another opium of the people , a cheap one he had just been using
' but we saw nothing but some masai cattle in the timber and came home , in the dark ,
how could he write like hardy and hamsun when he only knew ten years of life .
much money .
" " he had better get off the street now .
the bull would come to him in the next third in good shape .
" " where ' s that ?
damn him .
is non-productive .
" what do you know about lady brett ashley , jake ?
whoever that is .
the lorries down to tanga and around .
i went on a long way .
gone into the front line for the first time .
bottom in a varying mist of gravel and sand , raised in spurts by the current .
” “listen , ” the clean-cut young man said .
up and handle them before pitting again .
" how does one eat inside ?
“aren’t you running a lunch-counter ?
there were not so many carts now and very few people on foot , but the old man was still
" it ' s nothing .
' he ' s not a big one , ' he said softly .
' tell him to go , ' said pop .
is it to have one longer day ?
wheeler stood up .
down to stand on the walls that separated the two corrals .
“please do not say such things .
the boatman put the boat in sharp for shore .
the end of something in the old days hortons bay was a lumbering town .
with a cake of soap he had brought from the camp .
but it was not ruined .
' did you see where it hit him ?
' ' do you think we could once more if it would not hurt you ?
“you’re the only friend i got .
what can you talk about in this damn place .
' ' _per piacere_ .
” “aren’t there any shore birds ?
i ' ll see .
" shut the door , can ' t you ?
, ” el heraldo’s critic wrote .
“you are very lucky , comrade .
“i know , ” he said , “we’ll get some piombo and fish tomorrow .
' ' right , jackson .
" i ' m too far behind you now to catch up and be any fun .
do you want to hear what i know ?
“shut your goddam mouth , ” the guard said .
the fifties from the vehicle were firing and there was so much noise you could not hear .
for quite a while .
professional writers who had jobs that prevented them from fighting wrote of combat that they could not understand , as
the street was dark again and i kissed her .
” “say , give me another shot of that , ” manuel said .
" i don ' t give a damn any more .
it was his money and he discovered he liked the authority of editing .
” “how about picadors ?
he looked across the bay to the hills that were beginning to sharpen against the sky .
" listen to him , " said carl .
ahead , close to the left bank , was a big log .
" anything happen at the encierro ?
in the swamp the banks were bare , the big cedars came together overhead , the sun did not come
but please never look at me nor think of me like that .
the cart .
” “i better go and watch them , ” his sister said .
" i think you should go back .
' droopy swears it ' s good , ' pop said .
but i must get him close , close , close , he thought .
an all-night restaurant when some one came in the door and started shooting at the mexican .
" " old mike the spender , " bill said .
jack wouldn ' t take the foul .
but he didn’t in any way .
she was really quite deaf ; she read lips , and i had not looked toward her .
' that ' s the hotel where we are stopping at , jackson .
frazer two pheasants that were out there in the snow , and pulling the bed toward the window , the
you can make a wonderful one with wild strawberries .
in the brush of the river bed .
“what i wanted , always , was you and now i’m with you .
" he ruined cohn , " mike said .
i ' m no doctor but i know that .
out of the rain .
” his father asked him .
sometimes when we have the british ambassador and his dull wife for dinner i will teach the footman , who
they looked nice in the ferns , and now the bag was bulky , and i put it in the
brett used to take the shells out when he ' d gone to sleep .
if you ' d leave them alone you ' d get one .
then came romero .
" that ' s a young man that will go a long way in italy , " i said to
then she was holding him tight and kissing him , her lips an island in the sudden white sea of
' pop said to p .
—that’s all right maybe this time , said drevitts , but how did you know they were wops when you
that has nothing to do with the story .
“how the hell would i feel ?
you stay there the whole season and only fight two times .
we had to wait for a table .
you kill them off .
we always just said _merde_ and let it go at that .
pole and i couldn ' t break it .
ever touched them , people who wore the purple heart from jeep accidents , insiders , cowards , liars ,
“we better go .
i ' ve got his gloves off and he ' s holding himself in down there with both hands .
he is not a scavenger nor just a moving appetite as some sharks are .
know who shot him and that he is very weak and wishes you would question him later on , ”
he carried in his pocket , was beside the reading light .
other push carts with pillows and blankets that you rented ?
“bad politics , ” frankie said .
" " look , " said montoya .
edna started to laugh and could not stop .
in those days women had not yet commenced to wear their hair cut short , as they did later for
pull up just ahead of it and i ' ll go over and have a look .
shameful , stupid thing to be forgotten and the colonel remembered it technically as something to learn from .
he must get to somewhere .
he was looking at her , at the way her mouth went and the curve of her cheek bones ,
i ' ve saved you the rooms you had .
you can go back to your platoon if you like .
must find out when it was built and who built it .
” “we got a diner on now .
but i will kill you dead before this day ends .
“i didn’t mean to wake you up .
thought about the long stretch of the brenta where the great villas were , with their lawns and their gardens
there probably wasn ' t only one .
when the last two bulls had been unloaded the herd were all together .
doctor , ” doc fischer said , looking at his hands , at his hands that had , with his
the next day and on other days to come .
pork sandwiches with hot sauce on them in a lunch counter and brought them to the car in a brown
he was sleepy and the old man put his arm across his shoulders and said , " i am sorry
” “that’s quite simple .
" she called .
he had never thought of her that way .
the match had started on a sunday morning and ended on a monday morning .
i never brought anybody here to fish .
" he turned to brett and to me .
if they got buff today there would only be rhino to come and the poor man would have gone through
” “did anybody tell them ?
and it was very late in the day , really too late to take the lion on , once he
like to ask young lowry but i did .
” “let’s go , ” i said to john .
that was a large statement .
“i liked it when it started .
how did it look ?
the only thing he’s afraid of is another one of the same kind .
they become leaders .
the dolphin was cold and a leprous gray-white now in the starlight and the old man skinned one side of
" it ' s a subject i know too much about to want to think about it any more .
they don ' t know a damn thing .
i must not deceive myself too much .
" " bad thing to do , " mike said .
" you can pay for the car , jake , and i ' ll send you my share .
“let me tell you something else , ” the man leaned forward .
” “the sort of problems i meant were : we could go into the market together or to the cockfight
" he ' s big bluff , " trudy was exploring with her hand in nick ' s pocket .
c ' est un mot très fort , " he apologized , " mais vomir sur la table-- " he
the rest of the times we walked .
” “do you know much about it ?
how is everything with you ?
" " yesterday .
now with the lightning : there you have something .
” “it is your problem .
want to .
” “comrades , ” said baldy .
, maybe , they would still be training jumping horses and their hoofs would make the thudding on the turf
now , in the deserted dining room , enrique tied the last knot in the napkins that bound the knives
he could hear the wind above the mangroves and looking out at the high , cold sky see the thin
what time do you think i should wake your opposite number , you girl ?
say , you ought to have seen wops look at us sometimes , when they’d come by , going into
what is that ?
the fire-light went as far as the water .
" come on , " said zurito .
i swam with my eyes open and it was green and dark .
cars turned onto the main road that led toward the sea-drive into la havana .
brakes as we passed .
panic through the sun-splashed timber .
you haven’t slept nights ever since i been with you .
" don ' t get bloody , " romero said , and grinned .
" " do you really have to go ?
” “yes , ” the doctor said .
couple of times .
it is awfully easy to be hard-boiled about everything in the daytime , but at night it is another thing
do you get that ?
” “i answered him , ” said the man in command .
i’ll tell you what to do when it’s time .
because his hands got tired holding the spool of the reel against the drag of the big bait , he
“everybody feels like that .
' ' i don ' t know what to tell you , ' the colonel said .
him look through a pair of field glasses and he thought he was clausewitz .
' ' and how are you , yourself ?
' ' permit me to be sorry .
' ' do you think they will drop anything here ?
only have kate down here .
about nine o’clock in the morning they would start using the x-ray machine , and then the radio , which
" where did cohn go after he hit me ?
and then he knew that there was where he was going .
' don ' t worry about us .
it was agreed beforehand that p .
remember , no matter how little you want to , that you must eat him in the morning .
and the trade wind is rising .
_num_ , then the smashing and crashing had gone on going steadily away and he had gone into the heavy
he rested for what he believed to be two hours .
" bigger than a cat .
romero , watching , saw the bull start to turn his head .
" " look what he ' s done for villalta , " the first waiter said .
very bad time was coming .
" finally he felt his anger go out of him and he felt a little sick about it being the
there were the lights of a car on the road climbing the mountain .
as he looked in the glass , he saw he was really quite a different looking man .
' now i must go and see how the steak marches .
jack ' s body .
figure it out , he thought .
“what the hell kind of place is this ?
“my old man won’t care , ” bill said .
” “what’s on your mind ?
the girl was amused .
into the cockpit .
i jumped behind the bar on the left side and could see looking over the edge .
looking back we saw burguete , white houses and red roofs , and the white road with a truck going
what will you drink ?
it was large , wide and high ceilinged and there was a long and distinguished interval between the doors of
" " it seems the bull-fighter fellow was sitting on the bed .
the elevator , of course , no longer ran .
the locusts were exciting to see and it was difficult for me to take them as a matter of course
he looked back through the window at the three porters sitting at the table .
could do nothing about such as the weather .
of people .
when i quit bleeding i took another look through the glass and then i sculled over to the boat to
the paris edition of the _new york herald tribune_ lay on the bed beside his three pillows .
" " of course you have , my dear , " brett said .
” “with the money you buy another boat .
" but her jew has gone away .
gave her two hundred francs .
' he asked the concierge , who was now in attendance .
” his mother did not say this in a mean way .
" " maybe they won ' t like it .
i have to do it to change him when he gets that way .
” “i don’t like the pitchfork bones , ” his sister said .
" now bring up three more bottles , " mike said .
but they can certainly crawl into a sack sometimes .
he was getting into the real spanish metaphysics .
” “yes .
_num_ st soldier—sure , go on and kid him .
but don ' t you ever write one word of this .
it was a final look to ask if it were understood .
never come back .
honey , in lots of ways we couldn’t have it better .
he realized that the fire must have come the year before , but the grasshoppers were all black now .
told him i knew too many people in biarritz .
some mr .
so i asked him to bring me here .
that is a sensible order couched in simple language and easily understood .
i have loved three and lost them thrice .
then , too , danger was in the hands of pop and for pop she had a complete , clear-seeing
“where you say you’re from ?
but he could not find a spoon and his sardines were rotten .
ran onto the book the boy had done everything hateful and stupid that he could , his father thought .
' ' sad stories of the death of kings .
“they all come here and eat the big dinner .
i read it all the way through , including the petite correspondance and the cornigrams .
he twisted the blade and as the shark slid loose he said , " go on , galano .
” “she broke down .
but when you have to do it you ought to know how .
the blood had flowed down into a pool where his body sagged the bunk .
what would you rather do if you could do anything you wanted ?
" " he calls her circe , " mike said .
john , ” said mr .
and the star spangled banner is fool-proof until towards the last .
" " you ' re talking through a sheet all right .
] you couldn’t let me have a little something on account , lootenant ?
” “do you think it will be all right ?
who wants to make a bet on that ?
" " yes ?
better to let her sleep than to wake her up now .
he looked up at us as we passed .
_el heraldo ' s_ second-string critic , drawing on his cigarette , his eyes on the bull , wrote :
each line , as thick around as a big pencil , was looped onto a green-sapped stick so that any
it ' s my own fault and it ' s not , too .
back was and how brilliant his spots were colored and how bright the edges of his fins were .
i was thinking about the bull and wishing to god i had never hit him .
they all looked the same colour in the shadow .
chicago is tough north , south , there isn ' t any east and west .
' but if i brought home a picture of some woman , my old woman would run me from rawlins
always .
' ' not too .
' of course .
things were not the same and now life only came in flashes .
took her down .
with true handles .
sometimes he had a thought and the particular piece of slang would not come into his mind and he could
' ' i would not like .
into his feathers again .
safety and they start sniping at you with the anti-tanks .
“you’ve got about five feet .
“you can stay in this shelter as long as you wish .
there had been a great killing at the last of the offensive and someone , to clear the river bank
on retirement pay i could make it all right .
but the gondoliers , while they are the most co-operative and , for me , the finest people that we
“nothing that is not in the official communiqué .
' chapter xxix they lay on the pleasantly hard , new-made bed with their legs pressed tight against one another
his hands were greasy and the forks of both thumbs black as graphite from the back spit of the machine
at eleven o ' clock i went over to the quai d ' orsay in a taxi and went in
' ' n ' dio .
the stream bed .
but i would like us to have such a writer and to read what he would write .
while the game trails ran now smoothly to the dry waterholes , and there was a new water that he
” “leave me , ” said the matador , his broad good-looking face wrinkled into a contortion that was like
" mrs .
moi , je ne crois pas .
smith and liz went out .
don ' t you want the man who shot you to be punished ?
they didn ' t do much to this in the bombardment .
she cried as though her heart was broken .
" " when did you see brett ?
“you have everything here .
' " ' i don ' t know , ' olz said .
” “another bright boy , ” al said .
but he had gone back into heavy sleep and the boy had gone across the road to borrow some wood
' ' there isn ' t one here , but there is in rome .
they were not dead and he could bring the pain of life by simply opening and closing them .
across the knuckles , held in place by his forefinger and his thumb .
” “i think i’ve heard of it , ” the girl said .
" during this romero was fingering his glass and talking with brett .
people climbed over the fence , and i could not see the man because the crowd was so thick around
he took the bottle very hurriedly and tipped it up .
the tank was burning black and greasy in the trees .
i ' m not hungry .
there’s plenty of room to land and we have the smudges ready at both ends .
perhaps in an hour i will see him .
' ' cipriani has a large store of vodka in case the russians should come , ' ettore said ,
" i just had an accident .
i straightened up and went over to the shade of a big tree .
' ' i ' ll take the salt-lick .
bent back .
standing on the bridge the island looked dark , the houses were high against the sky , and the trees
lice .
when nick had asked him to smell of it his father sniffed at it indignantly and said that it was
' re buff gone down the river .
you must do nothing stupid .
and the streets of the town .
and sign the wire with love .
” he had saved this until the last because he did not want to worry macomber .
“you cannot understand .
he smiled at her now and she looked away from his face at the way his shoulders sloped in the
” macomber asked , still exploring his new wealth .
the shoulders , the bull had followed the low-swung flannel , that disappeared as romero lurched clear to the left
” “he had a wife once too .
' ' that ' s a short sentence .
there was snow , or something , rain or fog , all the times and the roads had been mined
" i got a thick tongue but i ain ' t got a head .
“that’s why he put me out of the car .
_] _ _num_ st roman soldier_--you see his girl ?
toward the street .
roanoke , virginia february _num_ , _num_ dear doctor-- may i write you for some very important advice--i have a
' only the buildings .
' she used to be the queen of the seas and the people are very tough and they give less
" how much is the wine ?
" muerto !
“we’ll eat a couple of apples .
so white and clean and beautiful and smooth and fast and like a tiger or like lightning .
there were the horns , the one splintered , the other smoothly sharp , the need to profile himself toward
a rest home or something of the sort .
he stood up , went across the aisle and touched the detective on the shoulder .
“i wish we could sleep here all night .
” he went away and i bought the evening papers which had just come in from another old woman and
' ' then we could see the trees when we woke up .
armoured and the eighty-eights not there .
emotions of the deepest dye .
into the water that was thundering down .
” “do you think we can go to europe some time and see cathedrals ?
' ' we ' ll get an early start in the morning so we can finish it off before it
' ' that bloody savage .
chase down that liver .
he kept on hiking , putting the miles of track back of him .
don ' t you know you ' re not wanted ?
the sergeant brought the handcuffs up into the little man’s face twice without looking at him .
” so we took up the use of grammar , and soon italian was such a difficult language that i
but he wanted to try it .
here we had come through a beautiful country of virgin timber where kudu had been once seen walking along the
” “i wish he hadn’t killed that buck .
“you think we make a baby ?
the end of all his dreams .
“please is much better .
your commanding general sometimes puts things down as the fortunes of war .
while they would never violate the secrecy of the confessional , talk among themselves .
you must get to know the values .
that ' s what the birds were after .
dined together .
it was brett .
, with a mrs .
“you didn’t say anything to boulton to anger him , did you ?
he had a huge , german-type steel helmet which he wore on all expeditions in the direction of the front
the clock on the wall marked a quarter to ten .
she was still a good-looking woman , he thought , and she had a pleasant body .
' ' he believes you should hunt kudu alone .
other things .
' s licence ran out , she was his favourite and we were simply a lot of people who interfered
the drums marched ahead , and there was music on the fifes , and behind the men who carried the
“i’m tired .
we haven ' t time for such luxuries .
of course the great thing in this sort of an af air is not to be shot oneself !
' there ' s no difference , ' i said .
he was going to sleep a little while .
” “bring all the .
“you yellow rat-eating aliens , ” eddy said , “get overboard .
new means must be discovered to find room for us under the sun .
that’s correct .
" after all , it ' s a pub .
who the hell is going to make any trouble ?
he enlisted in the marines in _num_ and did not return to the united states until the second division returned
across the field to cross the two roads and get into the shuttered estaminet and find out what had gone
talent such as kipling had .
you will be sleeping .
' there ' s the view , jackson , ' the colonel said .
" a simple enquiry outside , the snow was higher than the window .
“fishing is nonsense , ” said the doctor .
“thanks , ” said the darkest and smallest one .
but now the line had been pushed down from the lip of the plateau , across the river and up
the picador’s lance slid along his back , and as the shock of the charge lifted the horse , the
i don ' t know what that fish was that took the bait just now .
" " i ' ll come along , " bill said .
find me a man who can tell me about next saturday .
' ' we run it ourselves , ' the colonel said .
the season does not open there until august .
he lived in a small , tight , professional world of personal efficiency , nightly alcoholic triumph , and insolence
" " brett ' s got a bull-fighter , " mike said .
” when she came out from the shower with her hair tucked under a rubber cap she said , “darling
” “canada .
' the sun was down when we came out of the forest and looked down the slope and across to
that ' s my town .
up a little line .
his four feet up .
" " the nigger .
_secco , molto secco e doppio_ .
” “i am demonstrating the american uniform , ” nick said .
the eyes closed .
” “would you do something for me now ?
i don ' t care about my body .
my god , yes .
” “something wrong with the food ?
we can play some bridge there , and there ' s going to be a damned fine fiesta .
" " oh , " he said .
" he smiled again , showing his bad teeth .
it ' s very good .
i will also ask to speak to mummy and tell her where we are dining , and , if you
” we drank some more wine and watched the road and waited for the point to come up .
, ” which appeared as a story within a story in the garden of eden , a novel published posthumously
write it to-night .
he bought them across the street .
“they can bring my net out later and hang it from the tree and build the fire up .
holes where mustard gas shells had been and the average broken house is finer to see than one that has
every time i try it , it catches .
“may i offer you a slice of bread dipped right in the hot ham fat ?
" ' ' i must learn that for in the country .
to get her to do something which she was laughingly refusing to do .
that was where they walked up the sleigh-smoothed urine-yellowed road along the river with the steep pine hills , skis
” “anything ?
he had complimented the undertaker .
fill her up and check the water and the oil please .
come on , hubert .
why don ' t you ever get drunk , robert ?
he was curly haired and well built and his lips were prominent .
i ' ll get it changed on the way .
we wore a four-leaf clover , which meant nothing except among ourselves , who all loved it .
“don’t do it too much .
to listen to it without thinking .
" " no , but i ' m afraid he ' s going to die .
” “inside the last house .
it is always cool and shady on certain streets on the hottest day .
" you ought to try it some times , jake .
" six .
as the shadow of the kingfisher moved up the stream , a big trout shot upstream in a long angle
but he liked to think about all things that he was involved in and since there was nothing to read
' ' i tell you truly , richard .
now i lay me that night we lay on the floor in the room and i listened to the silk-worms
or in the winter in the mountains you had to put them in the snow and when the snow melted
but i read it too .
it making a great noise .
" what ' s the matter , darling ?
" i am anxious to see it , " the critic said .
” “you won’t get out of it that way .
" one picador said .
when he stopped drinking and tipped the leather bottle down a few drops ran down his chin .
“you’ll see why we hunt them .
he said it with an air of superior knowledge that irritated both of us .
” “what’s the matter with chaves ?
” “them indians , ” said mrs .
” “hi papa , ” stephen said in a hoarse voice .
he didn’t look so big when you first looked at him until you saw the length of his legs and
" but i bought these .
they all marched in the rain behind his coffin and there were one hundred and forty-seven bull-fighters followed him out
there was something else .
they swung around with compie watching for warthog holes and roared , bumping , along the stretch between the fires
he made the fish fast to bow and stern and to the middle thwart .
evidently he did not want to move , having fed , probably , when we had heard him roaring in
“what is , my dear ?
you marked the last blood with your eye and both made casts to pick it up again , signalling with
' especially not about the army and navy game and when the very high brass speaks in terms of american
" what ' s your name , kid ?
i had accepted the big one now and was happy to see him and that karl had him .
' they are hang-around colonels , which are given to a division commander to replace one that he may have
' ' we will have confidence in our leader .
rain on the way home from strassburg and the slipperiness of the rails of the tram cars and the feeling
the street light shone on the brass number on his collar .
i don’t know anything about this game .
” but i don’t know .
his new jaeger bathrobe that he had bought for his wedding trip .
he is .
“sure” said nick , “but it isn’t practical .
the pull of the line as he felt the fish turn .
meter in paris , to prevent faking .
he opened his leader box .
” that was true , too .
“what about the chinks ?
suppose you don’t tell who he is and he shoots somebody else .
i don ' t carry any military secrets with my toilet articles .
then he turned to me .
nick trailed his hand in the water .
i was remembering that i had read you must never camp in abandoned native quarters because of ticks and other
it is right though for me .
say where i would hit him .
' ' not this one , ' the colonel said .
” “afterwards comes the headache , ” said the thin one .
he was still bearing the pull of the fish across his shoulders but he placed his left hand on the
across were the steep hillside and the gullies we had studied last night .
off to the right onto an old elephant trail .
' ' you must get warm , ' the head keeper said .
” they were resting before they started the bad traveling through the slashing and nick wanted to explain .
" there he goes , " bill said .
” said the innkeeper .
in the dark the old man fell flat and m ' cola laughed ; then the cape unrolled and came
" it ' s really an awfully simple operation , jig , " the man said .
” “can’t eddy do it ?
and the possibility of continued observation depended altogether on not drawing any fire on the seemingly deserted building .
” “i only give you fifteen cents , then , ” said fontan .
” “you won’t take a cigar ?
zurito had his head down once , but he’s come back .
' the shooter was thirsty from the hard work of breaking the ice and driving the boat in and he
“i’m wonderful .
we all got out , for this stream was a problem , and , on the other side , the
horse shot with a man riding him nor a milk cow gut-shot when she walks into a fire fight .
the hills that now have been cut down , and kansas city was very like constantinople .
feeding on the opposite side of the meadow valley and that they must have fed either up or down the
, leg-drawn-up leaps as unbelievable and as floating as those one makes sometimes in dreams .
“go on , then .
remember you had a lot of money on you when you picked that one .
” “where’s wemedge ?
“that’s dirty .
packard about getting a few things .
hell and damnation .
" on the forearm , from just above the wrist to the elbow , were small blue circles around tiny
many times during the day he had wished that he had never betrayed the elephant and in the afternoon he
' ahead of the point , general .
the boat moved into the tunnel of clouds .
i’ve never seen it .
“i killed that bull out in the thoroughfare country in wyoming with a winchester _num_ - _num_ .
" " well , " bill said , " we might as well have another drink .
“you’re not villalta , ” retana said .
“it’s pouring , ” john says .
“you fight ?
" " you ' re awfully funny , harvey , " cohn said .
of the night and full of excitement as we came up to the fire .
” he caught her at the door .
' ' let ' s , ' the colonel said .
pack in the meat and m ' cola with a head , the old man with a head , and
chapter xiii i heard the drums coming down the street and then the fifes and the pipes and then they
, gay , truthful eyes and the honourable white hair of his age , which was two years older than
you don’t have to be afraid .
the torcello boys were all great boatmen .
but i am sure he would have confidence .
front of a fire .
" jake , don ' t get drunk .
do you mind telling me in plain language what happened ?
" " so long , mike .
or he would not be able to live with himself .
your driver is asleep in the house .
the lion still stood looking majestically and coolly toward this object that his eyes only showed in silhouette , bulking
down town to the library to get a book , eating lunch at home , reading on the front porch
” we heard her walking on the stairs to the cellar .
jack was putting away a pretty good lunch .
no one seemed to be tending it .
“give it to the memsahib .
” because , just then , death had come and rested its head on the foot of the cot and
all the same size ; half-pound one ounce .
he never lied ever .
" while i dressed i heard brett put down glasses and then a siphon , and then heard them talking
” they climbed , but with constant small descents , toward the height of land that separated the two lakes
' ' well , whoever it was put it on us .
my father looked at the fire and kicked at something .
' ' i must learn to use the term properly .
there is at least one in every town .
“no , ” he said , “only the animals i stated .
the waiter turned , holding his tray .
“i really love you .
“you should have killed yourself last week , ” he said to the deaf man .
they ' re so stupid .
" don ' t you think that was funny ?
hundred yards away , showing big and very dark in the shadow .
" that ' s up to you .
he saw the lights of petoskey and , off across little traverse bay , the lights of harbour springs .
did you sleep well ?
nobody could tell him what to do .
” “and to live under that sort of discipline we should die ?
they did not try very often on the boat because mrs .
not a g-man .
“they’re drunk , ” she said .
then he had gone to the indian camp , walking there in the dark , to get rid of the
the swamp was all the same on both sides of the track .
“just a minute , ” she said .
cm .
i got to check on all his habits and his friends and where he used to go .
” “i’ve tried it so long .
it looks as though it had been cut out of wood by an indifferent craftsman , he thought .
" " you might introduce your friends , " brett said .
an appointment to go to an anarcho-syndicalist meeting and paco had agreed to take over his table for him .
“why we didn’t stop when they started shooting ?
' ' that will be wonderful .
and the good guys went to chicote’s .
he had thought of five hundred , but when he opened his mouth it said two hundred and fifty .
you ought to be ironical the minute you get out of bed .
' pop told him solemnly .
“he’s been in his room all day , ” the landlady said down-stairs .
so did m ' cola .
yonder .
home is going to be wherever evil is strongest and can be fought .
this fiesta ?
present .
they wanted to go home .
" no , " manuel said .
' ' i will .
that makes no difference , he thought .
it looked all right to me and i turned off the light .
it’s awful when you can’t slide .
road and is coiled in the first or second section of the trap .
when ?
" " faut les connaître , " said johnson .
hell , ” i said , “you don’t have to worry about mr .
“we bring the little presents .
the valley .
i told him i wanted to pop out and see you chaps for a minute .
i know there are tricks i ought to know .
' ' and you won ' t write about this ?
" the beer ' s nice and cool , " the man said .
weren ' t here to listen .
i gave him the key of the cash box .
frankie felt as bad as i did .
live out in the country and have a little car .
did you get many , nickie ?
the veliki or san michele or some other bad place beyond the carso where everyone died , or was incapacitated
' ' over there , ' the concierge said .
' fisi .
” “just about .
let’s go .
" those must have been trying days .
” he’d been giving the nigger a dollar a day and the nigger had been on a rumba every night
he’s a real black nigger , smart and gloomy , with blue voodoo beads around his neck under his shirt
" " how much more will it be if you drive me to san sebastian on your way back ?
" they can ' t understand the english language , anyway .
" no , i wouldn ' t let you take the chance .
they say she was just outside of havana harbor when the hurricane hit and she couldn’t get in or the
“horace here will bear me out that i only speak of it in the very friendliest way .
and he’d say , “joe , when we’ve got a decent stake , you’re going back there to the states
" " better eat .
swooping around and it was cold as a bastard and then i was fast to three fish the second the
“it is not only a question of youth and confidence although those things are very beautiful .
“poor old phil .
that afterwards you wait to hear it move , and it is slow in starting .
" max turned to al .
he leaned over george and picked up the two ski poles from against the wall .
do you sit down ?
' ' do you want to ?
especially all the things you ' ve waited so long for , like absinthe .
usually when he smelled the land breeze he woke up and dressed to go and wake the boy .
he turned him up , all his legs walking in the air , and looked at his jointed belly .
now we are governed in some way , by the dregs .
” “weren’t we lucky to come here ?
“can i go up and put a couple into her ?
i speak english , but badly .
i took up the brandy bottle and poured brett a drink and one for myself .
i think it would be better if you didn ' t come up to the line until you had those
the proprietor back of the zinc bar , and the proprietor himself .
' memsahib must think we ' re silly beggars .
have pulled him overboard if he had not braced himself and given some line .
the winner and still the undisputed champion .
' not in my position .
" " watch how he handles a bull that can ' t see the color .
saw him always .
i don ' t know , even , what half-arsed means .
that isn’t my opinion .
” “what was my grandfather like ?
you aren ' t funny .
with their instruments .
" " except the wife , " i said .
' but i won ' t think of anything or anything nor of nothing nor of his brother , to-morrow
take it .
wet in the wind that blew through the trees that shaded the tents .
" " wanted to , " he said .
” “what else have you written ?
we ' re almost to the market now and you made it without hardly noticing .
“with all those who do not want to go to bed .
now i don’t have to think of her buried in one place and be sad .
" yes , signor maggiore .
holding his breath he pointed and across the stream on the far bank at the edge of the trees was
i ' ve lost my self-respect .
' listen , ' i told him in english .
” nick nodded .
usually it’s lonesome .
' they were made and they ' ve all been paid for .
' ' i don ' t know what you are talking about .
“i’m going to make you comfortable , wesley , ” he said .
" " good old mike , " bill said .
republic .
“did she go all right ?
i saw it come down the beech-tree bordered road .
i opened it and showed him .
of west .
toward them coming down the channel around the end of the key .
' i don ' t think i can stand it .
our own dead , or what he thought of , still , as our own dead , were surprisingly few
“they came in for baths and then they stayed to shoot craps .
when it stops , you just do not know the time .
he was in his picador clothes , without his hat .
' he did not like to call for montgomerys in a tone that could be overheard because there were two
its long flat body , its tail and its head until he clubbed it across the shining golden head until
and so did the shape of the clouds over the land .
” “not too bad , davey .
' listen , daughter , ' he said .
i ' m too old .
" said jack .
” “being in cold water’s supposed to be good for that .
“hello , zurito , ” he said .
" we had the drink and put brett into her taxi .
" george thought i better come and tell you about it .
s- _num_ informs that a company will swing around and tie in with b .
it ' s not good to be catholique .
' my god , mister gorton , ' said nigger , ' i didn ' t do nothing in there
" don ' t you really believe i love you ?
” macomber said .
“you know we love you and i want to tell you for your own good how matters stand .
” “no , ” said madame .
” “where did you hear that ?
he’s like a saint .
" good night , darling .
he had three forty-fathom coils of line in reserve now , as well as the coil he was using .
' ' yeah , ' the colonel said .
that ' s a good one .
' ' no , ' ettore said .
manuel ran over and picked it up .
" now let me get through the eating of this dolphin and get some rest and a little sleep .
i always thought we ' d have children .
there were also a number of cakes of chocolate and a tin of special christmas plum pudding .
' ' i am so sorry , ' she said and blushed .
' i looked where he pointed .
“look how he bit me .
i told him what had happened .
you might open it , " brett suggested .
the young man uttered the lowest form of the word " thanks " and looked after us suspiciously as guy
it was something we had to do .
” “he was a much better shot and his father was a great wing shot too .
" " i understand .
“que toro más bravo , ” the matador said as he handed his sword to his sword handler .
“but that just made him sort of simple .
' ' in the morning i will try it .
" you order , " i said .
besides , i’ve been going good lately .
i don ' t think that ' s what i meant to say .
' when ours comes back from handeni .
" after a while you never notice anything disgusting .
only heard of him .
" " you ' re not flamand ?
damned if i’d cross a night like last night .
i’m thinking about her .
they would come onto the camp now from above .
" where the hell were you ?
" it ' s pouring , " john says .
" there he goes in , " he said .
' ' but that is poetry you are talking about .
but we know each other quite well .
enrique could not see the color of his coat or trousers , but he was a negro .
“they’re a damned nuisance wet or dry .
" " of course it will .
the wife was sitting at a table under the line of newspapers on sticks .
" " maybe it was just a bluff .
it was colder than ever and the broken ice re-froze and the calling duck did not even look up now
' ' i can ' t believe it .
' ' i think i know that .
” he took it out of his pocket .
rushing , the current sucked against his legs .
" " hot , my god !
everything looked sharp and clear , and the town smelt of the early morning .
" you ' ve got to realize , " he said , " that i don ' t want you
' ' we are , ' said the _gran maestro_ .
” the killers the door of henry’s lunch-room opened and two men came in .
the one that’s down .
that ' s what he wants .
” “we can only stay a minute , ” i said .
" " listen , jerry , " jack put down the glass .
“it’s pretty hot , ” the man said .
“we’d get food from the rumrunners .
" " stay away from the quarter .
them i wondered at them and at how i had ever done them .
you are with friends ?
kate always in her bathing suit .
not try to write everything .
lip , he realized that they had all turned black from living in the burned-over land .
the last new .
” “they must have cut up at the far end first and hauled and piled the bark by the road
monte carlo .
” “you would embark them for the tortugas where a schooner would pick them up .
” “i saw a picture of a girl who caught one .
in a short time the friends began to drift back to paris .
to get much smaller .
' ' one pretty good right behind the ear .
they had been very expensive suits , had always been well kept and he had one more .
he said lovely to himself since his thinking was often un-grammatical .
“talk about something else .
nothing , nothing can touch them .
“it doesn’t matter if i’m moving around .
“watch the faena , ” zurito said .
but where we’ve got to go tomorrow doesn’t make sense .
” “i wonder how tom is .
, karl with charo and m ' cola and i together , m ' cola dropped pop visibly in his
beer cans and dead barracudas a woman saw a great long white spine with a huge tail at the end
" well , " i said to guy , " you wanted to eat some place simple .
“he killed this italian with his bow and arrow .
for each year , something that made you superior to other people , something that gave you more complicated habits
" it doesn ' t do any good to say i ' m sorry ?
his father gave him only three cartridges a day to hunt with and he had a single-barrel twenty-gauge shotgun with
“come on , manolita .
" i know .
" you ' re going to lose your fifty francs , " brett said .
' what did you get ?
" of course , he ' s coming , " braddocks said .
' it can ' t be true , ' i said to myself .
he could smell him as strongly as he had the night in the moonlight when he had worked up close
no , our best chance , the only chance a rifleman should ever ask , was when i had a
' ' they won ' t be big for long , ' the colonel promised her .
we slowed up , at the side of the road .
how long did it take you to write that story ?
” “shut up .
” “they aren’t going to counterattack us tonight , ” al said .
that was protected by the mountain from any shelling .
“it is rented .
as he jumped , nick lowered the tip of the rod .
the two men at the counter read the menu .
and the count ' s been a brick , absolutely .
" " they are all very much the same , sir .
the major , lying on his bunk , looking at his cloth-covered helmet and his snow-glasses that hung from a
it was my business to cross the bridge , explore the bridgehead beyond and find out to what point the
’ “‘every time i went to work in the shed at night .
” “did you feel badly though ?
" they don ' t take any chances , those two .
' ' i ' m not tired of you , ' the colonel told him .
' ' they ' re all gone except the barone who is waiting for you .
_num_ d roman soldier—no , it ain’t just that .
it is a pity they weren ' t ten against one , the colonel thought .
one table was playing dominoes already .
thank you for the fine times .
we see him jump .
" he did not say anything but looked at the bags against the wall of the station .
“you know they’re stolen as well as i do .
to nobody .
” “that’s the way , ” retana said .
" he hasn ' t got any passport .
nick moved along through the shallow stretch watching the banks for deep holes .
' " " they never answer , " john said .
who were these bull-fighters anyway ?
“how do you want the eggs ?
first it was the heavies , and no one need ever worry about hell who was there that day .
the road flattened outside the town .
" i ' ll mail it for you .
then there was another fence and the hard , hot trail from the barn to the house and the hot
” helena called from the bathroom .
he was relieved to know that para was all right .
" " good !
of red .
' ' the three of them .
' i ' ve got three more on the licence and we ' re leaving their country , ' i
browning .
better for me .
” we shook hands with fred and got on the train .
" he was there , " brett said .
makes no difference where you live .
now beside the road , and then it commenced to climb and we came into some blue hills , old
in their room the two i was working on the picture with were still working over the bad camera .
“certainly something can be said about a day so full of events .
looking into the mirror he saw that this was quite true .
to gather them .
' no veterinarian will ever fix his horse .
' ' not to mention the coiffeurs and the hair-dressers .
slope .
don ' t you ever see anybody ?
those weren’t especially good .
” “yes we are .
the land must make a difference too , in the shape of the clouds .
he gets only a little drunk on the way home and does not waste too much .
david and his father ran along the heavily splashed blood trail .
and the bull got under the horse , lifted him , threw him onto his back .
” “do you want to go up there ?
" very poor .
of the fish standing up well behind the skiff ' s stern .
i gut-shot him , i thought .
we believed in that although they had not found a new name for it yet .
“i can wake him up any time now , mister adams .
" then i should see the glow of havana .
the lake .
he was in his home where he had made it .
it was hot and good after the rain and the clouds from the sea .
that afternoon there was a party of tourists at the terrace and looking down in the water among the empty
” “quite a way .
and aided and abetted by the second waiter , had shown her to the colonel and to the girl .
but he’s still in the area .
sitting , all three together , in an open third-class railway-carriage .
that has been made quite clear .
you aren ' t making me any money in philadelphia , are you ?
” “he’s here about two years , ” frankie said .
' ' i ' ll give you something else to back up what you ' re using .
” “don’t bring anything .
he never brought her no good luck .
i was enjoying the early morning , still a little sleepy , going along a little mechanically and starting to
“come astern here , ” i said .
a glacier , back to town .
other people were fine and you liked them and were good friends ; but you only felt true tenderness and
” “sure , ” i said , and shut it .
that’s all over .
“that was a pretty thing to do , ” he said in a toneless voice .
you’re not my father .
' i will go in and see the grand master .
not give a damn about it .
“he’s out in front in the office .
, looking very wholesome and middle-aged and american in spite of not having slept , and had taken the cloth
“didn’t you hear me ?
' tell him in the morning in our tribe we always shoot them twice .
“the south germans are a gentle , lovable people .
still had many of the hearty mannerisms of his days of success .
going to get a shot .
” they had put the wild turkey in the back of the seat and he had been so heavy ,
“cut him down to size for me .
side of the small of his back through to the other .
here he comes .
“what are you doing that for ?
nick did not perceive all this at once , he only saw the man’s face was queerly formed and mutilated
at his great ears , and the smoothness and cleanness of his hide , looked at his hooves , that
the other corner .
, you won to-day , jerk , ' he said in the best venetian dialect he could summon at that
" he ' s good , " zurito said .
a nail might hit it if it were driven in cleanly and soundly and i thought i must do something
' ' good , ' pop said .
nothing about the waiter .
in every sort of light .
window .
i should have kissed him myself if i was any good .
there were only four of them .
it spread like lava , the grease spitting sharply .
” “a little , ” said al .
" did you have a good night , jake ?
" hello , " said brett .
” they got in one car and we loaded all the stuff into the other .
“there he is , ” he heard the whisper .
a hundred’s a decent range .
the dust powdering the trees and down the hill , we had a fine view , back through the trees
“are you a party member , comrade ?
she should not do .
” i said to him .
the trees were full of white storks .
a liar , in full flower , the colonel had thought , is as beautiful as cherry trees , or
he thought of how some men feared being out of sight of land in a small boat and knew they
the iodine .
they ' re working all the time .
" he spat in the road .
“last night he had three bottles , ” madame fontan said to comfort him .
out a description of the little man .
' she ' s like a little terrier , ' he said .
the bull looked at him ; his eyes were quick .
find courage to tell wilson to go on and finish off the lion without him .
another man and from voyaging , of how things , actual things , can be , whales for instance ,
we had the roman ' s brother as guide .
' ' _bruttissimo_ , ' the colonel said and , pulling the belt of his raincoat tight and settling his
" how old are you boys ?
" there ' s the boys that always work for me nights , " retana said .
children of decorous cohabitation .
” nick , dripping , walked out on the springboard , remembering how to do the dive .
there was a very big tide too and the flats were yellow and the channel ran by the far island
” my old man says something in a regular voice to george and george says , “don’t ever bet on
very brave , very arrogant and extremely ambitious .
us , need in our journey through the wilderness of life ?
i would like you to have the emeralds and you could keep them in your pocket like a lucky piece
" well , " i said , " i hear you had a wonderful trip .
" i don ' t know what i want to eat .
" there ' re the regular pics , " he offered .
there was another herd .
it was green along the banks and men were fishing along the far shore where it ran deep .
guns against the trees and went in under the close shade and lay on the ground .
the snobs are what you call jerks and the people with all the new money .
i am glad we do not have to try to kill the stars .
” eddy looked pretty bad .
“the uniform is not very correct , ” nick told them .
pillow .
' oh , we did , ' the colonel said .
” peduzzi handed him the ten-lira note folded over and over .
but i did not know that then .
the critic put that in .
" you ' re some boy , jack , " john says .
" i know we don ' t get much of a chance to judge good wine in the states now
" nick cocked the gun and hardly taking aim pulled the trigger , blowing a hole as big as your
” “you have it , ” i said .
and looking out through the slit , and we were no longer partners , no longer good friends , and
" " c ' est vrai , " fontan nodded .
the great dimaggio is himself again .
so they all sat around the café du dome , avoiding the rotonde across the street because it is always
none ?
you told me that , you know .
i got a lot of use for that arm .
one reader writes she sat at the table in her bedroom with a newspaper folded open before her and only
we’d put out a feather squid and caught four of those little tuna and the nigger put one on his
we started inside and there was a smell of incense and people filing back into the church , but brett
” “you believe it is .
“what about a girl ?
i was sitting over at the iruña reading the papers when i saw robert cohn coming across the square .
don ' t you know about irony and pity ?
boy , hell , he thought .
' and i don ' t have to take garrick or abdullah ?
jack , ” i said .
” nick and his sister watched him go in the door .
his feet firm .
' ' so , ' said kandisky .
went toward the woods on the slope of the first hill .
he learned that in the army .
it would not have helped him if he had heard it .
an armoured vehicle under such circumstances .
' ' were you in spain for the revolution ?
she started crying .
she smiled and showed all her bad teeth , and we touched glasses .
just for fun .
“as soon as i get my clothes on , ” krebs said .
“put it back , ” said the bartender .
" " they look awfully real to me .
" " how did he do it ?
awake in the moonlight he knew that was not true .
it comes in the metallic rending crash of a vehicle , or the simple lack of traction on a slippery
, re-defined her lips with the lipstick , and straightened her hat .
he’s really bad .
then fire twice over the parapet to alibi the shot .
i put down money for the wine , but one of the men picked it up and put it back
' counting polo .
money in it any more .
it was ten o ' clock now and very hot in the open , the sun pegged and the breeze
it was a green , pleasant country , with hills below the forest that grew thick on the side of
we understood each other on the question of religion and charo admired my shooting and always shook hands and smiled
" i won ' t touch you .
’s .
“tomorrow night at chicote’s .
' ' let ' s follow them , ' i said .
' ' everything , ' the colonel said .
” “i don’t feel like seeing anybody .
take dyin’ like a dog easy ?
“you guys don’t make much , do you ?
” “did he get wall street ?
" " the adjutant is at the cable railway , " said the sergeant .
at eight john motioned to him .
“he was more than any husband could ever be , ” peroxide said .
i sat at one of the tables and looked at the pictures on the wall .
manuel swung his body clear and , as the bull recharged , brought around the muleta in a halfcircle that
“thank you for your hospitality .
grey in the early morning light .
“have you any water ?
she liked the deadly serious way he received any complaints .
he started to cough and they held something to his mouth .
water against his hand .
' ' did i ever see their ears ?
through the window he saw his father sitting by the table , reading in the light from the big lamp
while they were strapping his legs together two guards held him up and the two priests were whispering to him
" " i can ' t read letters , " mike said .
” “pretty good , ” jack said .
of those two and that boy while they slept .
he was waiting to get strength enough to get up and hit cohn again .
it made me shaky to think how much she must have in her .
same motor boat that they had ridden in before .
' ' if it ' s guided missiles , ' the colonel said .
i guess it was disappointment , too .
some weigh three to four hundred pounds .
" " come on , let ' s have another drink , " mike said .
' here ' s to you , daughter , ' he said .
" you can read and write , can ' t you ?
it started but before he had said , as fast as he could , “oh , my god , i
i like him .
” “i know , ” nick said .
that must be someone else .
the _querschnitt_ was a german magazine i had written some rather obscene poems for , and published a long story
' ' so am i , ' said pop .
she pronounced it bean as in bean soup .
[short stories] the complete short stories of ernest hemingway / ernest hemingway .
alice commenced to laugh again and to shake all over .
he was glad to speak of something else .
, but i was never in chicote’s that it wasn’t pleasant .
_num_ st soldier—oh , i don’t know .
here he comes , manuel thought .
' ' when i was a boy , i fought against erwin rommel half way from cortina to the grappa
him ?
he watched only the forward part of the fish and some of his hope returned .
' and the hell with shaef .
' i have great admiration for him .
' then , daughter , the next sections of the valhalla express dropped everything in the world on the krauts
it was very interesting .
or was it one tribe ?
at the club shooting , he would often say he had been writing .
from the cool side it seemed as though the breeze came down the valley .
” “can i go ?
" zurito looked at manuel , avoiding his eyes .
" that ' s what people usually get bitter about .
center .
they were bloodstained and compactly folded and packed in the baskets .
_num_ d roman soldier—come on , let’s go up to the barracks .
" one !
" i hope they have a lot of good luck .
“did they catch the murderer ?
she had clerked one summer in the store and she knew what the penciled code letters and numbers meant that
please don ' t remember it .
clean .
the rebecca .
after the seventh round jack says , “my left’s getting heavy .
the night before they were to come back she didn’t sleep at all , that is she didn’t think she
they went on up the hill to where the road turned into the grove of trees around the church .
i think i could recognize a pistol-slapper now .
" nick stood up .
dream and went on dreaming to see the white peaks of the islands rising from the sea and then he
" she wouldn ' t eat anything and she wouldn ' t sleep at all .
' this is the place where the german shot the pigeons , ' the girl said .
, and i know the way the trees bend in every wind and how the church and the tower are
he lay with his head on two pillows .
” “oh jesus me , ” the waitress said .
you know all of those people ?
“but not much .
in the pack he found the prepared buckwheat flour and he put it out with an enameled saucepan and a
odor of the crushed fronds .
” “that’s what your father calls you , ain’t it ?
the road down below against the woods with cars going along it , lifting the dust up .
but the shark came up fast with his head out and the old man hit him squarely in the center
i looked around at the bay , the old town , the casino , the line of trees along the
" imagine if each day a man must try to kill the moon , he thought .
did you practice a sport ?
kudu bulls go along the trail in the afternoon .
crushed .
i went to church a couple of times , once with brett .
he was scared being down there by mr .
” “bed bugs ?
two of the ways were alongside canals , but they were long .
” “a hell of a lot he cares , ” the tall waiter said .
' ' we will strangle them with our bare hands , ' the colonel said .
it wasn’t loving .
but you didn ' t say anything .
he looked to the right , the starboard , he thought .
' absolutely , ' i told him in english .
to .
' what would you do about mantova ?
“you sure you want to go ?
” “wouldn’t that be awful ?
" " he don ' t sleep .
hotel florida .
o r i g i n a l ly p u b l i s h e d i n
i promise to make a pilgrimage to the virgen de cobre if i catch him .
no one will ever hear of it .
manuel noticed while spreading the muleta that the white base of the horn was stained red .
watching the carrying and the packing of the car .
" " do you want anything of me , signor maggiore ?
i’d read it all .
' ' why do you like the hand ?
he walked over to in front of the president ' s box , bowed , straightened , and came over
” “he must have got mixed up in something in chicago .
i think he did right though shooting those chaps .
" " they got a cure for that , ' sliding billy ' " turner said .
ghee , get it out of my room , ” nick said .
green slope .
“encore un coup manqué , ” said onie .
i feel rather good , you know .
then for the first time in my life with a good conscience i sleep automatically .
" " neither do i , " said johnson .
nothing about fighting bores me except lies .
“how did you get on the crew list ?
it isn ' t bad , either .
if i don’t want one i won’t take one .
“don’t make jokes so early in the day , ” the manager said .
” he tapped his head .
why hold us if anyone’s gone ?
' ' i want so much for us to roll up to a comfort station and plank down my money
somebody else picked up the flit gun and threw it out the door after him .
we were lying on blankets spread over straw and when he moved the straw was noisy , but the silk-worms
get in .
he could say what he wanted to when he wanted to say it .
the blown bridge was being repaired with a snarl of riveting hammers , and eight hundred yards away the smashed
' ' i am over bold .
" " i saw two skunks last night , " nick said .
' ' i ' m barbarous , ' the colonel said .
he had been that hungry before , but had not been able to satisfy it .
it showed clearly that it was the place .
they had all been blackened and chipped by the fire .
here ?
the boys took off their jackets and sat against the wall on the other side of the stove .
" there was no cast net and the boy remembered when they had sold it .
' shoot a kudu ?
” “carries a hell of a long way , ” said robert wilson .
try and take it .
” “i met the broker when he was leaving for the consulate and told him i was going .
billy tabeshaw carried two big canthooks .
' ' then the front part of the valhalla express dropped coloured smoke and turned and went home .
the surface of the water , as though it were starting to rain .
there were fine prawns that could make a scampi brochetto spitted and broiled on a rapier-like instrument that could be
” “we’ll go into key west , ” the doctor said ; but he said it without great conviction .
to ruin it .
over the chairs to dry .
“i don’t want to get the shakes .
brett had sipped from the martini as it stood , on the wood .
unresponsibility of victory ; only emerging to direct m ' cola in where to cut to make a full enough
he ' s able .
the line was slack .
she put the felt pads and the beer glasses on the table and looked at the man and the girl
each morning at this moment i observed the southern cross in solemn ceremony .
" you think too much , old man , " he said aloud .
" there are thousands of bulls , " brett said .
most of them were frenchmen .
and before it had attained any of the seemingly huge stocks of unexploded munitions .
they had all been packed in the suitcase .
it don’t do my girls any good .
" " no , " jack says .
then , with his right hand he felt the difference in the pull of the line before he saw the
just mud .
” i remembered the flit gun man with his grey wax hands and his grey wax face , his arms
but the fish did not come .
" you see i ' m afraid there ' s some sort of misunderstanding .
she gave me her hand as she stepped down .
” “potatoes , i think , and parings from horses’ hooves they get at the blacksmith shop .
he was watching manuel out in the centre of the arena .
plenty of creeks come off the mountain .
" " i didn ' t either , " her male companion said .
“mister francis ?
" good-night , " nick said .
that was done .
” “certainly , ” i said .
” “sure you know .
“he’s a sweet fielder , too , ” bill said .
' ciao , then , renata .
her husband did not answer .
here , take twenty francs .
at a certain age the men writers change into old mother hubbard .
" tell me i live for always , and be a millionaire .
one night a week it was the dancing-club .
” “as long as you don’t kill him , ” his sister said .
the girl who had taken our order came in from the kitchen with spaghetti .
barrel drove through the first .
i headed her up against the current until i was past bacuranao and nearly to cojimar .
“i tell you straight they shot him in the back .
” “why don’t you pay me some on account ?
' put your hand in your pocket to please me and feel them .
i come back to get married .
" he lay there on the bed .
again , and again .
a big trout broke out in a violence that made a slashing wake in the water .
growth and found juma shaken and bleeding from his forehead all down over his face and his father white and
beyond on the opposite bank were the heavy trees and above them the steep bank of the canyon .
' i ' ll see you at dinner , ' the colonel said .
they ' ll stay as long as there is any open water .
" " where did you stay up ?
“hand me those things , wemedge .
" i fought in tripoli .
there are two more hours before the sun sets and maybe he will come up before that .
" where are you going ?
we tried it on the front door and the back , but it wouldn’t work .
so let’s not let it let us down .
" " just a suggestion , " said bill .
i was way out toward the quicksands and i didn’t find anything so i went on .
but it is very egotistical and an ugly process .
; his split hand .
as we came up on a headland beyond the town , the wind struck the car and nearly tipped it
” “an awful lot .
" poor old schatz .
" no , " jack says .
keep your head clear and know how to suffer like a man .
told the waitress .
isn’t any good now .
” “but what happens to the road ?
" " good old wilson-harris , " bill said .
you know we got to .
i did not feel the first trout strike .
" frances clyne was coming toward us from across the street .
the old man took it and drank it .
nobody had been fishing the stream .
” “i am sorry you are not a member .
” “they may send them again if there’s enough people left to lead them .
the sun .
i don ' t want you .
" " i ' ve heard his name , " i said .
" mike turned to bill ' s friend .
and what of our daughters who must make their own soundings ?
room than he would have taken up a stupid defensive position .
" just because you say i wouldn ' t have doesn ' t prove anything .
don ' t be bitter .
alvarito , the barone , was standing by the open fire in the middle of the room .
“two admirable qualities .
we passed a farm with a long meadow and i saw a flock of killdeer plover feeding .
el heraldo’s second-string critic , drawing on his cigarette , his eyes on the bull , wrote : “the veteran
" " let ' s go out and eat in the town .
ever happen to you than the encountering of it .
' o .
i know i’m not good at looking after you but i can do things other people can’t do and we
“you had the right dope , all right .
he loves to go for champagne .
noise of the inhalations and exhalations of the accordion , and of the bells , the traps , and the
he would get a yacht and they would all cruise along the north shore of lake superior .
in the evenings we played three-handed bridge with an englishman named harris , who had walked over from saint jean
brennan .
“i don’t feel bad any more .
he seems like a nice old fellow .
" by the police , " said mike .
" that ' s a good thing to do .
but all i could do was imagine things to do for you .
she walked the length of the room and stood in the doorway .
” “you are drunk .
they ' ve been after me to write it for years but i drew the colour line .
nick looked straight ahead brilliantly .
it was very hot but it was not the heat that bothered .
he was no longer breaking the law .
it when he was back with his own people .
i’m so sleepy , darling .
oh , give them irony .
then stooping and holding up a leaf with bright blood , slamming me on the back , m ' cola
" then some more delirious stuff .
it is skilful , marvellously constructed , and it is dead .
" i don ' t know where she is .
maybe some resorter’s kid .
" many letters , " she said .
' ' that bull may be just around the bend , ' pop said .
slip from the universal chaplain of us all , with combined religions .
" aren ' t we going to go and have some supper ?
" i had eaten two helpings of chicken and french fried potatoes , three ears of sweet corn , some
went into the edge of the high reeds on the left shore of the lake where another stream made a
" " try and be there , " i said .
he ' s shooting awfully accurately , he thought .
" how you feel ?
” “a twelve-gauge pump .
him who spoke any english , and they had only seen two cows and jumped a bull out of range
" but you have not slept yet , old man , " he said aloud .
so he’s a bloody four-letter man as well as a bloody coward , he thought .
” “could you eat now ?
" " you like being married ?
" i said : " yes , football .
" that ' s an extraordinary business , " brett said .
so he had no shooting and he thought without intention , trying to find what had made it at the
i could see him getting sleepy already .
" " very good .
see , as wide as all the world , great , high , and unbelievably white in the sun ,
” “that’s quite possible .
" do you think you amount to something , cohn ?
“good night , ” i said .
a severed femoral artery empties itself faster than you can believe .
" only two bottles beer , " she said .
they used to share this just so they could leave because it was intolerable .
the fire where the ground had been dried by the heat and stretched my legs out , leaning my back
“we are through for the day and i have the early part of this evening off .
well , so long .
" " we ' ll be fine afterward .
who says it ?
before the sunrise , where we could see , a long way off , eland feeding , looking huge and
the dead bull .
then he fell back into the sea and picked up the scent and started swimming on the course the skiff
" the barman shook up two more martinis and poured them out into fresh glasses .
sticks , his legs tight together , his body curving to one side to let the bull pass .
and we will live outside the town at viterbo and only go in for the fittings and for dinner in
” “the strange country” comprises four chapters of an uncompleted novel that hemingway worked on at intervals in _num_ -
' ' i ' ll have them get you up early .
she likes a lot of people around .
" at the hotel i paid the driver and gave him a tip .
i hurried across the street to the café .
" " there ' s a species of woman here who ' s waked the whole street up .
mayn’t i , francis ?
hull and the sudden displacement that you made and then the trimming in the dark privacy and then the second
it’s a sin against our lord and saviour .
but who should criticize whose tubes ?
“my poor mother died when i was so young it seems as though i never had a mother .
” “ciao , ” said nick .
as he looked towards the mountains he could feel a breeze on his face and he knew , then ,
" " i don ' t know , " the boy said .
had ambition .
“darling , please don’t drink that .
“they aren’t striking , ” he said .
' ' where is the island now and in what river ?
” down in the dining room the tallest of the waiters , who was overdue at the meeting , said
' he smiled and his eyes were as kind as they ever were , which was not too kind ,
” he had drained the glass when we drank to him .
not angry .
pop was reading _richard carvell_ .
you can start back in the hills any time after the sun gets a little farther down .
” she stood up with her shirt hanging down over her brown legs .
he sat there neither eating nor drinking .
he intended to ride him all through the corrida .
only asphalted street in all that quarter , smooth under the tires , with the high narrow houses and the
" " your fiancée is having a great success , " mrs .
“why don’t you gentlemen just put your lines out and enjoy yourselves ?
they got into a taxi and drove out to rimmily hissa along the bosphorus , and around , and back
down , ' the colonel said to jackson .
_num_ d soldier—i knew her before he did .
” “do you like it here ?
the president came in ; there was handclapping above us in the grand stand , and i handed the glasses
“what have you got to eat ?
he did not want to hunt buff or anything else with macomber at all , but he was a professional
' colonel , sir , ' he added .
t o f o r na c i .
you know how you feel when you hit a drunk .
' ' will you tell me some happy things i can have for during the week and some more of
and you ' re my daughter , too .
" " brussels , you mean .
“do you want me to read to you ?
tank cars , moving at a gallop across the far edge of the open prairie .
so the three of us sat there in the stern and drank a highball together .
' this isn ' t where he wanted to go though , he says .
" " oh , " he said , " they go through .
" the steer was down now , his neck stretched out , his head twisted , he lay the way
for the fire and they both smelled the trout cooking in the bacon fat .
he was also being consciously practical .
nick saw it was hollow ; pointing up river the current entered it smoothly , only a little ripple spread
" " no , he hasn ' t got any con .
' ' they were too far .
" the big one asked .
" there ' s no need for us to be snooty .
it did not mean anything .
on the other side there was glass , then the corridor , then an open window , and outside the
“if you do .
” “glad to meet you , ” bugs said .
i thought it would be simpler if the shelling started .
the pastureland was green , and there were fine trees , and sometimes big rivers and chateaux off in the
” “nobody’d ever have known it if i hadn’t been slow .
that i am half a hundred years old , they know i fought for it and am a part owner
most of the time it costs you money .
' ' and what do i do ?
rushing regularity as the tide coming in at mont st .
then they go somewhere else and say they got it here .
“they don’t take any chances , those two .
“i’m grateful .
then there was the black iron fret-work bridge on the canal leading into the rio nuovo and they passed the
claimed nigger owed them money on account of wrecking hall .
remembered wishing that he had never seen him .
set up the canvas cot .
" go on , tell him .
it was raining hard but there was a lot of people outside on the streets .
but he looked pretty good to me in there to-day .
he set down his suitcase and knocked on the door .
he lay there , face up , quiet , in his good clothes , with his feet in the cockpit
who got it up ?
“what did you do , dad ?
him , sweeter than an eland even , stroked his nose , his neck , and his shoulder , marvelling
' ' did you ever have a daughter ?
tell him or he can’t tell him .
" you ' ve got some fine ones yourself .
a man in a narrow-brimmed , flat-topped straw hat stood under a tree on the comer .
trigger in her .
' ' swell , ' i said .
shoe-shining .
” “you’re a big-gun man , eh ?
the season for them to bring a good price .
what did you make it ?
" how you know things , " brett said .
he would jerk without seeming to know it and he held his hand so the sergeant’s left hand was always
" " all right , " said the girl .
been entering , at least , its twentieth year .
“what do you think ?
] _num_ d soldier—hey , what you put in that , camel chips ?
" " what do you want me to call it ?
have we met ?
' but i ' m getting out of the business .
her , and watched another , and then saw the first one coming back again .
" i hate the english .
' i said .
” “no , ” said the sister .
one of his professors who had said , “wilcox , you have no business being a physician and i have
for kudu .
and drink it .
our nada who art in nada , nada be thy name thy kingdom nada thy will be nada in nada
' ' kiss me first .
one special source of material was his life in key west , where he lived in the twenties and thirties
the drinks drove the past away the way the headlights cut through the dark and roger said .
you come yourself and you bring the money .
“i don’t want to eat yet .
” “she was the most beautiful girl you ever saw .
i gave her a fearful hiding about jews and bull-fighters , and all those sort of people , and do
he owed me over six hundred pesos and he wouldn’t pay me .
but usually strange ones .
you’re out of your head .
but you’ve got to make a start at something .
” guy was looking up the road .
do you remember the flying inn ?
' at least they say he did .
' ' is sheridan nice ?
" she wasn ' t crying any more and she was calm .
they all wanted something that i did not want and i would get it without wanting it , if i
" the woods were gone ; the road had left the river to climb ; the radiator was boiling ;
here , i thought , we would jump him in a gully but the spatters of blood , not so
go ahead .
" jake , " mike said .
“i sleep in it sometimes .
they were the biggest , widest , darkest , longest-curling , heaviest , most unbelievable pair of kudu horns in
" " i don ' t think you ' ll be bored , " bill said .
" tommy said .
” “we can have the whole world .
" " your frients haff gone up-stairs , " the german maître d ' hôtel said in english .
" " so do you , my dear .
you mustn’t mix it with daughter though .
i’m pretty sure that’s why littless went along .
chapter x they whack-whacked the white horse on the legs and he kneed himself up .
' get my and your bag out and park her up there and check your oil , your water and
spoils everything , though .
the thrill had been too much .
i hope to god , or anything else , there ' s nothing really bad .
road , turning up the side road and leaving the car beside the fence .
” “there are some rifles in cases .
the early morning , and he wanted to settle down now .
that is easily replaced .
back again .
and you ?
“we’ll have new orleans in bed .
have you seen such a comrade going in the direction away from the front ?
he can always not come .
well , that is what i have to offer as a _gueule_ or a _façade_ , he thought _num_ it
he turned to me and smiled .
sometimes his girl was there and sometimes she was with some one else and he could not understand that ,
his mouth come open .
“ah , things have changed , camarade .
, and i have frequently seen dead mares among the horses .
might be shot through the lungs .
” “i don’t ask you about everyone you’ve been in love with .
now , awake , he felt for the gun , looked away from the sun , which hurt his eyes
i .
' ' and you don ' t want arlington or père lachaise or what we have here ?
they say they’re going to wait till you come back .
patches until you were in them , slid down , clung to vines , stumbled and climbed and slid again
won’t you stay and eat some supper ?
” “no , roger .
i might as well , he thought .
' ' come on , ' i said to m ' cola .
“all the time .
“i want some water .
" that ' s awful funny if he ' s catholique .
” “for you it is different .
, and to write as long as you can live and there is pencil and paper or ink or any
brett came over with her wrap on .
with a magnum of perrier-jouet brut _num_ , shot a great number of rounds to make it seem important and
he doesn’t know , ” a waiter said .
and i like that too , he thought .
the colonel thought , it looked like goebbels ' s face , if herr goebbels had ever been in a
knowing you have broken them ?
the poor kitty out trying to keep dry under a table .
what is your unit , comrade ?
mostly it was just a hand .
night .
” “good-by , gentlemen .
' no thanks , i think i better go to bed .
he was definitely invalided out of the war , had died of pneumonia .
they’ve got food .
his mouth was very dry and it was hard for him to talk .
“give me the apron .
“i was watching , ” i told him .
an indian can make a profit from a sisal shamba .
you ' ve a big load as it is .
“what he said sounded pretty sensible , ” al went on .
" sure , " she said .
the funny thing was it looked as though jack was an open classic boxer .
' ' the hell with you , ' the portrait said , without speaking .
i’m going to be your common-law wife under the unwritten law .
nobody gets in here ever .
of his hand .
" " i ' ll send a runner with you .
' ' i believe i get the point .
all three had those changeable silk dresses .
it was pleasant enough though .
the first sound thing you learn , he thought , is to have flaps and buttons on all your pockets
the day before .
but he swears this is good .
“frances what ?
” “he’s my best friend and my conscience and my father and my brother and my banker .
“you order , ” i said .
” “no sir .
he takes the half-assed pointer , and he shows us , with complete conviction , and without forebodings , exactly
he cared nothing for boxing , in fact he disliked it , but he learned it painfully and thoroughly to
where have i heard it ?
that seemed safe .
ever since i was a little girl i ' ve wanted to be a saint .
he passed it right and left , left and right before the bull ' s muzzle .
” “like , ‘well ma’am , it must be pretty tiring on a hot day like today to be just
he sat down , backwards .
i ' m sure my maid would never tell her .
bugs put some wood on the fire .
' ' with no one of your sex .
couldn’t we all be buried out at the ranch ?
” “i like it .
“we have to go , ” i said .
" " little girl yourself .
" " i ' ll send him away .
wilson stood up and saw the buffalo on his side , his legs out , his thinly-haired belly crawling with
’s coming .
that was a trout .
" " castrated ?
hogan had come in and was standing beside the table .
“she knows all right .
" " f---- you , " said the lieutenant of artillery .
i ' m in love with him , i think .
he alighted in the piazza and everyone was delighted to see him .
lay in reserve .
trotting , their lean flanks swinging .
” “i want to eat .
his back was against a big cedar tree and behind him there was a thick cedar swamp .
" should we eat ?
lower that was dark and foul with stomach content .
” “dos cervezas , ” the man said into the curtain .
" he got the money out of the cash box , although then he always carried a hundred or more
he won’t float till the gas brings him up and all the time he’s going with the current and baiting
' i said i didn ' t want to drink anything .
the fish came out .
it was the one who was here last night .
but maybe they are just good friends .
“i hurt worse all the time .
he liked to watch them walking under the shade of the trees .
“i feel fine , ” she said .
this is his trade , isn ' t it ?
there it was all written plainly .
when such people with the leather coats and the pistols come it is always a bad omen in a war
, with their small sad voices are made too delicately for the sea .
the down-state man looked at mr .
' ' i quite agree .
was and still he was worried because this bull cost him so much money by fighting with other bulls .
he had crashed through the heavy cover where he had been feeding and crossed a path of open forest and
north .
” “sure , ” i said .
” “absolutely .
his train left at seven-ten .
“i swear to christ i’ve never been anywhere like this , ” he said .
a little later he rang the bell for the nurse who was on floor duty .
an irishman don’t draw in new york like a jew or an italian but they always get a good hand
i went inside .
" " tell me what tackle to send for .
you were born to be a fisherman as the fish was born to be a fish .
one of them can’t be sure the other didn’t drink it .
the fortifications were levelled but grass had not grown .
he was beginning to be spooked again .
you see is my helmet forced down over my face when am buried by bomb so i have the air
i don’t know what i expected .
“i must have called him that by mistake , ” captain willie said .
his knots tight .
let’s try now .
“it was awfully dangerous to bring the blankets , ” kate said .
instant shot .
that ' ll fix you up right .
in the morning the train was near paris , and after the american lady had come out from the wash-room
" " yes , " said nick .
' ' as you wish .
" from then he started to take a beating .
you haven ' t touched it .
' they were still taking off from the fields where they lived on that green-grassed aircraft carrier that they called
things left over from the failure of april .
spezia’s a lovely place .
i don ' t know anything about this game .
” “you ain’t going to fix me up , ” the nigger said .
the big thing was that marjorie was gone and that probably he would never see her again .
i said yes and she said but how was it there were no copies ?
” “ay dount think theys aneh dainjah een a house , ” the authority said with calm and condescending dignity
' ' your lovely mother would not mind ?
do you know what the old boy said ?
the other horse was up and away by himself , jerking his head and galloping with the bridle rein hanging
' i ' ve known that for quite a long time .
had given us about herself had made me noisy .
i hope that you will find some that you like .
you cannot marry me and i understand that , although i do not approve it .
he wore the crossed keys of his office on the lapels of his blue uniform without ostentation .
” suzy asked him .
“i can’t find anything , ” he said .
i gave the woman fifty centimes to make a tip , and she gave me back the copper piece ,
chapter ix the first matador got the horn through his sword hand and the crowd hooted him .
then once , twice , he came out stiff as a post , the whole length of him jumping straight
you know i can ' t win anyway .
to england .
" " all right , " retana agreed .
that was not what we were discussing .
it was a long spit and he just made it .
” they ate without talking , and watched the two rods and the fire-light in the water .
only that they were going to stay till you came home .
the hill and away from pamplona .
the horses’ breath made plumes in the cold air .
a beech tree grew close beside the river , so that the branches hung down into the water .
" what ' s all this irony and pity ?
said to .
” “frank had to go back to alcalá , ” another flyer said .
he gives you that .
once he had reached over and taken his wife’s hand without looking at her and she had removed her hand
it is enough to live on the sea and kill our true brothers .
it was a good feeling .
" jack asked me .
“you couldn’t do a thing like that , manos , ” he said .
a ship comes out of a fog and ahead of the men a tank lurched fast like a roundtopped ,
there was a lot of drunken talking .
robert climbed down and i fitted into the place he had saved on the one wooden seat that ran across
” “we’re here now .
billy tabeshaw went back and fastened it .
there would be no lack of anything .
you talk like one .
” “one apiece if you don’t have to fight .
” “they have them beaten , ” frazer said .
” hogan said good-by to us and brace , the nigger rubber , drove us down to the train in
one of the waiters said something to us in french , and then they just sent three of them back
the other bank was in the white mist .
there was a clock on the wall , a bar at the far end of the room , and outside
" this is fine .
the bull’s head was down as he watched the muleta .
this was the tenth day we had been hunting greater kudu and i had not seen a mature bull yet
” “i know , ” said manuel .
please whisper to me if you wish .
hand pulled the white horse into the air , front hoofs pawing , and swung him to the right as
" " you study it and tell me when i come back .
" ' ' that ' s him .
c ' est bon , la bière .
then there were sable and we agreed that whoever killed the first kudu should move on in the sable country
naturally i do not agree with everything .
hollow and the old log farmhouse on the other high land that overlooked the lake .
it seemed much longer coming home although , usually , the return over a new trail is shorter .
you don ' t have to put any name to it .
' ' yes , but we have to do the climbing .
” in the dark she kissed him , hard , on the mouth .
going .
that ' s just what i dreamed .
“but tell me what they were like .
the dust of the salt-lick had been cut up and printed deep with fresh kudu tracks and there were several
a peasant with a black beard and high leather boots stood beside the grave .
" give them the proper chance .
” she sat there holding herself very still against the back of the seat .
there was a general store and inn on each side of the line .
“it and wine too .
anyway i don’t want you just to be a seeing-eyed dog .
what people those americans .
' ' i can just remember it .
' ever see any wolves out around rawlins , jackson ?
gun-snouted beetle and went out of sight in the trees .
“this comrade makes a cinema .
well , we had lost him .
“are you awake ?
the hell it was .
_num_ d soldier—the part i don’t like is the nailing them on .
” “you haven’t got the horrors , have you ?
not one of them was dry .
get some money on him , jerry .
place where he had been hit , out on the river bank .
of the marsh and try to shoot and keep the birds moving while pop and p .
doc fischer was thin , sand-blond , with a thin mouth , amused eyes and gambler ' s hands .
” “i’m glad you’ve got them .
after robert had gone , watching it get dark and the electric signs come on , and the red and
' droopy whispered to pop and then pop said , softly in his throaty , whisky whisper , ' they
nick felt the slow pumping under his fingers .
he had not analyzed it yet but he saw the man had very flat eyes and a mouth that was
in the field the girl lay , her hands clasped across the top of her head .
“but we probably ought to have some for in emergencies .
but we ' ll stay at the muehlebach hotel which has the biggest beds in the world and we '
” he asked the porters .
' that ' s the house of the contessa dandolo , ' the colonel said .
a corking row .
” “cadillac is where steve ketchel came from and where ad wolgast is from , ” the shy man said
ploughing a furrow of sand .
" you see .
but there was an added drag now from the easterly breeze and the old man rode gently with the small
" that was a fine bunch out here this afternoon , " he said .
" " i am very happy you have come .
don ' t you know how a woman feels ?
' ' i understand none of those things .
but we have no hurricane coming now .
" your car is dirty and you are dirty too .
“advise one of the priests , ” said paco , holding the napkin tight against his lower abdomen .
“wash it off .
nothing but green grass-covered teller mines .
mike said .
there’s a good stream and we’re going to have a good breeze .
turned again .
nick put on his gloves .
by five-thirty they had made various other purchases , checked out of the hotel and the doorman was stowing their
' take it frontally and formally please .
“your wife ever see you fight , jack ?
nick swung the rod against the pull .
one wonders what that persevering traveller , mungo park , would have seen on a battlefield in hot weather to
” “i told you that you shouldn’t have come .
" he started up the bank .
like me to help you with anything ?
m ' cola looked at me anxiously .
_num_ francs .
i was a punk kid , and with an insufficient command of the language and i never even saw her
" it ' s pretty hard on youngsters travelling .
a carabineer in his cocked hat and yellow leather cross-straps came up .
do you think that ' s why they treat you well , he asked himself .
then they would seize it .
range of the ducks , i began to shoot snipe to m ' cola ' s great disgust .
shirt and undershirt , a book , two candles , money , the flask .
but i should have more resiliency than i have .
curtain .
" ' how did her face get that way ?
the spearsman and the tracks of the smaller buff , which had no blood on them , up to the
then i will have it all this week .
without all those people .
i pulled back the bolt and looked for the best pair of horns .
” “not really good .
” somebody said .
tunnels in the tall grass that came higher than your head .
they just have to go on putting papers under other people ' s doors that do not even hate them
absolutely no one .
but there was a car at the other corner and its searchlight was going over the field .
” “hell , ” said harry .
what do you call them ?
” “read what ?
“then one of them led paco by the arm to the place and held him there by the arm while
the harbour .
" i said we were going out , " i said .
it was just as white as a lye barrel and coming from eastern harbor to sou ' west key you
i watched a good-looking girl walk past the table and watched her go up the street and lost sight of
why are the lions the main thing that is left ?
i knew i could hit one if i shot from a sitting position or prone , but i could not
' chaps were throwing things at you and we couldn ' t find out why .
' ' agreed , ' the colonel said .
' and what would i buy with the god-damn three thousand five hundred lire ; and this is a good
for peduzzi .
they don ' t steal here .
” “later on , ” i said .
whisper in his ear , " wipe the egg off your chin , jack , and straighten up and fly
i ' d tell you about g _num_ , g _num_ , g _num_ , g _num_ , g _num_
it smelled sweet and sickish like an indian house .
on anything she knew about , or had read , or that she had ever heard .
" " do you ever read what this fellow brisbane writes ?
' she asked the colonel .
the other two at the bar moved down to make room for him .
and each one you have to kill separately .
“that’s right , sergeant , ” began the little prisoner .
but he rose into the air on his wings and circled the group of wicked lions once , with them
i gave him one and took down the pump-gun .
' i hate this salt-lick business .
all we have to do is to wait them out , though .
we ' re both good .
" spain !
wrinkled pile .
" " oh , he told every one that we were going to be married , and i told my
you stay here and rest .
i’m going to have it just as cold as it will run .
her father was in china-- thanking you and trusting wholly in your advice i am and signed her name .
i bought frankie a couple at the cunard bar and i came on board feeling pretty good .
they could not start in paying café prices .
" " what do you want to do about the car ?
" do you know mencken , harvey ?
it was a good lunch .
" " i ' m ninety-six and he ' s sixty-nine , " tommy said .
good shoot .
they had her daughter ' s measurements now too .
she had blushed and laughed and then gone upstairs crying with the yellow sporting paper in her hand .
' i am very deeply moved by the portrait and i am not entirely responsible for what i say .
my old khaki sleeveless , quail-shooting coat .
but he did not even watch it now .
i used it badly .
it was so thick that if we jumped them we could not get a shot .
“now you go outdoors and climb up on the ladder and put the bucket on the chimney and i’ll lock
” “hear anything interesting ?
but he had read it and it did not have magic any more and he knew it was a loss
” “that’s the only story .
they shoot real ducks at this one .
it ' s the only thing that ' s made us unhappy .
will say and what it may lead to in their advancement or their privilege .
but after forty days without a fish the boy ' s parents had told him that the old man was
again for always , for that long , sudden-ended always ; making time stand still , sometimes so very still
remember him perfectly .
“i was just angry at something .
bill poured in the water .
' ' you ' re sure .
' ' suppose we ' d been down there with all that stuff coming out .
come up to the porch .
started now .
" " i do not care .
she was very clean and the house was very clean and neat .
“i’m the only one here that ever knew steve ketchel and i come from mancelona and i knew him there
” “a lot of things .
it has everything .
there was a woman inside with her hair floating all out .
“now , ” he said .
and then looked at himself carefully in the glass , pulling down his long upper lip .
“is your husband american too ?
" " do you have much smuggling ?
” chapter xii if it happened right down close in front of you , you could see villalta snarl at
there is no one here now in the winter time and the dining-room is too big .
when he lifted him with his huge , flattened head hanging and how the indian smiled when he took him
he didn’t even look good doing that .
clearly over the water when a rainstorm lifts on the ocean as the wind carries it out to sea ,
but this is so much more fun than flying .
' ' thank you for the you .
you see this jig we call othello falls in love with this girl who ' s never been around at
” “nonsense .
they came toward him .
had decided on .
of two to one .
it wasn’t how they ended .
" you ' ll shake hands , won ' t you ?
" that way nothing is accomplished , he thought .
" you must come , jake .
' i have been .
crowd applauding .
that is , so he would have the plot permanently .
" " it would be grand .
“two hundred francs .
' ' m ' cola ' s pleased with it , ' i said .
” “i better take another to take the taste out of my mouth , ” red said .
" i ' m worried whether i ' ll be able to go through with it all right .
' that ' s the sort of trip to make , though , ' pop said .
jack didn’t talk much .
“yeah , ” said george .
frazer and wanted to know if there was anything he wanted them to play , and they came twice more
you see , we know the lion’s wounded .
" that don manuel chap is furious .
it is a sin , a constant sin against purity .
' t get at them , because these bandits had no sea-power .
" silly thing to do , " she said .
don ' t do that .
“listen to him , ” said carl .
but this bull was a strange bull .
he was solid purple-black and he had an eye as big as a soup bowl .
other , the gun-bearer shouted wildly and they saw him coming out of the bush sideways , fast as a
' ' i have never had the good fortune to know them .
" you ' re a pretty mysterious lot of boys , " hogan said .
" they ' ve put him away somewhere .
outside on the terrace under the arcade the german head waiter came up .
all right , spell breaker , retract .
i came on board and i took them out to look them over .
” “why haven’t you got the hatch up ?
each night i am reluctant to close up because there may be some one who needs the café .
i waved my hand at him .
it was the hour he had always gone to the café alone when he had lived in paris , to
' ' ever heard of george moore ?
and i’d get red , but i liked being kidded about her .
" " thanks , old man , " krum said .
" he went back into the other room for the light treatment and the massage .
this is good for you .
book , a pencil , my solids , the cameras , the emergency kit , knife , matches , extra
bird when they are crazy to be off after the rest of the covey .
they did not seem very elated about the kudu .
“good-night , ” nick said .
; just as i would consider the ten commandments just as seriously if they were not presented as graven on
" how was it ?
that ' s what he wants to do .
“he won’t be back before five o’clock .
that gave you a feeling of belonging , of being made a part of , to a very brilliant group
poor cayetano , he’s having a dreadful time and he doesn’t make a sound .
each side of the log .
' ' sure , ' the second waiter said .
you and you portrayed on canvas .
“didn’t you ever have to go to the can ?
where do you come from , you pasta-eating lion ?
t catch cold when he came out , and put his ring clothes and his bathrobe in a bag .
” “you talk too damn much , ” al said .
aren ' t the bulls lovely ?
forehead remembering to put the used handkerchief in my left pocket so i would not fog my glasses wiping them
“i came straight , ” said enrique , crying .
“and he spoke with us .
sometimes someone would speak in a boat .
“are you hungry , littless ?
“i’ll put some peroxide on that , george , ” the doctor said .
” “read it .
” “no understand , ” the lady said .
" you were blind !
i were riding in this gondola with marechal ney .
place .
the newspaper lay across his knees and the weight of his arm held it there in the evening breeze .
two men tied his suitcase on the back of the car , above our suitcases .
i can .
chair beside the bed , and some one lying in the bed completely covered by the bed-clothes .
" " come on in to pamplona .
" where ' d i better go ?
they could fix him up so that he could work again but it would take a long time .
anything we can do ?
we did not talk much .
they asked our mother for your rifle but i’d hid it in the woodshed when i saw them by the
elliot and always told them sooner or later that he had led a clean life .
he must have started to take a breath .
“see ?
” he patted himself .
" because i ' m a goner , " brett said .
“come on , evans , ” the down-state man said .
” “ceux , sont des poivrots pourris , ” claude said .
” “but things are never really successful until they are over .
we’re going in over the hills and sort of in the back way .
the ones who ran back to tell the news .
” “they won’t , ” i said , “and schmidt won’t be president either .
there was a low , dark room with saddles and harness , and hay-forks made of white wood , and
though they had been there .
the colonel continued .
' god knows , ' said pop .
" " we didn ' t know where you were .
ad stood up .
it was as though he were rocking the bull to sleep .
he knew too that it was not just that they were men .
across the river were mountains .
“you’re awfully beautiful when you cry .
and who made all her smoothness and delight and the strange pride and sacrifice and wisdom of a child ?
' ' you are very well liked in this city .
” “elle est indienne ?
but i missed the stories as though they were a combination of my house , and my job , my
“that’s a broad political program .
i ' ll come back right away .
" " i ' d tell her , too , " said the count .
we crossed the road and followed the edge of the scrub around a moor-like open stretch .
the fields were rolling and grassy and the grass was short from the sheep grazing .
” ole andreson looked at the wall and did not say anything .
it was all that remained of my _shamba_ .
“look at him now .
" " sande booted three of them in yesterday .
the colonel ' s lady and judy o ' grady are lesbians under their skin .
he was giving them hell .
' ' better not shoot then .
want the lovers , and drink being no anæsthetic she had to make another life .
he was an old man and he had worked in chicote’s for ten years that i knew of .
” “oh , ” i said .
to kill them for meat , wounding him in a running shot after missing him three or four times ,
get over your damn depression .
so i went out of the galleria and walked over to in front of the scala and bought a paper
i’d wanted kzar to win so damned bad .
once he turned and spoke to me .
' putting down his knife .
in the words of that great soldier and gentleman , sir henry wilson : gentlemen , either you must govern
i had held full on the centre of the shoulder .
people that went with them .
if we found good rhino we would send for him .
as long as he preceded the burlesque show as advance man he was being paid .
they made a great row .
yes mr .
you don ' t mind , do you ?
” “that’s it .
' ' do you want to shoot where we ' re going ?
" " i ' m going to get out of this town , " nick said .
' ' the trackers say it is really the property of the lesser kudu .
crying , " no kill him !
" we ' ll go up to my hotel .
" " otro loco mas , " said the barman and turned away .
but how the hell do you send it ?
“it isn’t worth while if you can’t .
than he ever had .
it’s in her room with the list of stuff to get from the store tomorrow .
and then with the dew all over everything and the sun just starting to get going , i’d help him
but i couldn ' t live quietly in the country .
" " let me send---- " " no , " said nick .
" " you feel all right ?
" " over there .
he got the other one without no advice .
light bulb that hung down from the ceiling .
you will .
his face was white and so was his jacket .
” “you want to hear the cucaracha another time ?
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--[_getting up from the barrel .
they had been drinking .
only in the early morning and again in the evening .
then a high one straight overhead , then miss a fast one straight and low to the right , then
“another brandy , ” he said .
" come in and have a drink .
becomes very important and you would not change it , not even by a different angle .
” “does helen ?
” “she’s all right .
' ' the memsahib ' s still asleep , ' i said .
can ' t knock out vienna boy in vienna .
” “nothing like surrealism .
behind this mountain there was a gap and then another mountain and the far mountain was dark blue with forest
” “no , ” said macomber .
" it is very difficult , " he said .
he sat without speaking , his fingers holding the beads .
' ' i love you and your mother both very much .
as a convenience to keep coupons and stamps in and had never seen the pictures .
" i can ' t quote , " he said .
“you know the only thing i’ve never lost is curiosity , ” he said to her .
" " i ' ll kill him though , " he said .
the water was a rising cold shock .
too many factors must combine to make it possible .
i thought that we would give him time to get sick , if he were only wounded , and then
he had terrible dreams .
and if she did wild or wicked things it was because she could not help them .
" " she does .
he was at home in his small house in treviso , close to the fast-flowing river under the old walls
" they walked down the road to the old man ' s shack and all along the road , in
” it was the ghee , swimming far out .
the bull never showed and i was absolutely sure that we would find him where i had seen him go
" this fellow raises the grapes .
it was too hot to go out , she said , and she was going with them in the early
i suppose you know it .
' he took the duck from the dog ' s light-holding mouth and felt him intact and sound and beautiful
he took him out softly and smoothly , and then stopped and , standing squarely in front of the bull
” “give blackie a drink , ” i said to frank .
but if i die it would not annoy it .
what do you say ?
he hadn’t lived long enough .
just give me a few medals .
“aren’t i old enough to go now ?
” “come along .
but if i eat him fresh enough he won ' t be bad .
“it is only lessons i have learned .
" guy asked , " you or her ?
” the negro looked over at the little man , lying breathing heavily .
“signor maggiore ?
holding the rod , pumping alive against the current , nick brought the trout in .
john .
don’t you love me ?
we were up that way this morning .
like all men with a faculty that surpasses human requirements , his father was very nervous .
salt water out of my head , and swam slowly and steadily in to shore .
' ' but what is it that happens to american writers ?
spezia ' s a lovely place .
i told her about watching the bull , not the horse , when the bulls charged the picadors , and
then he would have a little spot of the giant killer and play the radio , you could play the
the flit gun man , delighted with his success , and not seeming to give any importance to the fact
lips closed looking even more beautiful than when she was awake .
' ' by god .
” “don’t be melodramatic , harry , please , ” she said .
that was the headlight of the simplon-orient cutting the dark now and he was leaving thrace then after the retreat
” “is drink the same drink as you , ” said john .
" i don ' t know any more .
“you’ll sleep all right , ” i said .
who can we borrow that from ?
i turned off the light and tried to go to sleep .
could i shoot as well as i thought i could ?
" " you said it , " the other waiter who had come in said .
” “she’d be mrs .
i’m sure you’ve cut plenty people’s throats .
' ' i think of you when you come from the sea too .
” “i won’t let you file .
nor those of belgium .
" we want the bill , " i said .
" " you ' re awfully practical .
" " and you really want to ?
he stood straight up in his rage , his blanket cape around his shoulders .
" he slapped me on the back .
who is your thomas mann ?
it was a good camp .
it’s like a lady in waiting i guess .
things crawling around on his belly and under his legs .
“i must when i go back .
many different shades by the sun .
not lice .
watch the way they brake with their wings and the long legs slant forward to land .
and if it is you’ll find me there by the big basswood tree .
ran .
" " how about the horses ?
" he had the pack on his back and i put the worm-cans in one of the outside flap pockets
one hundred yards is all right .
the old man could see the slight bulge in the water that the big dolphin raised as they followed the
from the shadow .
” he spoke very angrily and bitterly , and looked straight ahead while he talked .
" " it ' s been damned hard on mike .
nor you .
nobody gets in where we’re going .
standing , beautiful , dark , full-necked , a dark ruff on his neck , his horns up , trembling
did you practise a sport ?
what does madrid care about galicia ?
" the trouble is you have a damned small battalion to command .
” “i’ve got sixteen dollars , ” nick said .
their left the sun shining on them in the dark foliage and as the sun lowered more came flying across
' hapana whisky ?
” odgar said in his husky , near-to-kate voice .
but when he was touching the breaking point he held steady and settled back against the strain of the line
he had no mysticism about turtles although he had gone in turtle boats for many years .
there was no one there .
i was very hungry and the food at the gran via was lousy .
” “all right , ” said paco .
' ' it would depend on how he looks .
" " sure , " said george .
” we all drank .
it is not intelligent to be wounded when it can be avoided .
" bung-o !
i want a kudu .
he saw the handwriting he went cold all over and tried to slip the letter underneath another .
we were going to check that today .
i wonder why he jumped , the old man thought .
how was it ?
bags into the back of the car .
“i’ll sleep , ” jack says .
cut a switch from the tree the buck lay under and sewed the stomach together with the withe so that
especially not the valhalla express day .
hunting kudu and many other things .
' he iss a very fine one , ' dan repeated .
you ' re sure you don ' t mind ?
“you can do that to me too , ” she said .
a little too much sun .
let them know you might have gone fishing .
” “they were damned fine .
" please don ' t , " the girl said .
he would have felt better now if the tip had been seventy-five centimes .
“manolita’s at the florida .
he was pretty good in there today .
i gave them all names and went to them on the train and sometimes walked for miles to get to
nick was happy as he crawled inside the tent .
one hundred fathoms down a marlin was eating the sardines that covered the point and the shank of the hook
my great-grandmother was killed by the english .
truly sorry .
” “no , a beet worker .
' which one ?
want to stay inside with a fire .
in the morning the train was near paris , and after the american lady had come out from the washroom
bring in any event .
i had looked out of the window .
then he pulled several yards of line from the reel and tossed the hopper out ahead onto the fast ,
we could not see them because the crowd was too great .
” “you look fine , ” steinfelt says .
' ' two very dry martinis , ' the colonel said .
he was shaving .
” “after i scalped him i’d throw him to the dogs .
sing .
we ' re just waiting to be pulled out .
” “i’d rather stay awake .
for three years , or almost three years , he had never seen beyond frances .
that’s a silly way to talk .
jack didn ' t say anything all during the meal except , " will you pass me this ?
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--come on , let ' s go up to the barracks .
" the waiter took the brandy bottle and another saucer from the counter inside the café and marched out to
" i am a good gambler , really i would enjoy being rich .
” the waitress said .
' t draw .
” “what do you want out here in the rain ?
but it is unavoidable .
one .
" you won ' t until he gets frightened , " i said .
then another layer of fems , then three more trout , and then covered them with ferns .
finally the whole kneeling , trailing figure coming around in a beautiful right curve , crouching , the legs shot
perhaps not yet a member of the order , and experienced .
' here goes .
” back at the hotel we went in the door past the sandbags piled to protect the porter’s desk and
" " how long ago did you leave vevey ?
the wrist of the prisoner .
she got in and it started off .
' ' you will , old timer , ' pop said .
i want to know exactly who is there .
it was no one ' s bloody fault , especially not the fault of the man who commanded it .
bill had eaten at the restaurant in _num_ , and right after the armistice , and madame lecomte made a
the colonel worked as hard with the poling oar as he had worked coming in .
then capes far down the coast .
today was thursday .
" asked the waiter , corking up the bottle .
well well well .
” he lay face down on the cot , his chin on his folded arms , and he was still
they seemed to move slowly and ploddingly .
i rather liked him too until today .
there weren’t any swamps either and none of it looked burnt over .
“it does look a little silly still staring down , ” she said .
" send their regards to you .
in my musings as a naturalist it has occurred to me that while decorum is an excellent thing some must
, the tank turrets open now as they came into the shelter of the ridge , had the straight-ahead stare
“no , ” said the little short man .
" nor that isn ' t good for me , " she said .
' people must be very complicated .
“you ever seen these fellows ?
the second is intercepted by a poor russian .
as he watched them they changed their positions by quick angles , only to hold steady in the fast water
“have one , ” my father said .
he rose , turned , saw the single drake , long-necked and beautiful , the wings fast moving and travelling
at that milano place ?
the bull-fighter fellow was rather good .
when the next bull came out , all three , the two bulls and the steer , stood together ,
then we trailed him and finally i hit him a couple of more times and we got him .
on his left foot .
start breakfast .
but in the meantime there is this .
way down upon the swanee river and for where we are going .
' droopy agreed .
there were little clearings with houses in them , and once in a while we passed a sawmill .
où sont les neiges d ' autrefois ?
at the forest edge , that we watched for rhino to come out .
they were really good .
" " they ' ll be dead then .
” “i bolted like a rabbit , ” macomber said .
then he touched his forehead with the bloody finger and made the speech about ' wanderobo-masai wonderful guide !
and the bull charged and villalta charged and just for a moment they became one .
" " not now .
that listened , interested but bashful , and the other that seemed getting ready to say something , and two
” “oh i can be much better than this .
in the street and the dye ran over the paving where the autobus started and the old men and the
he’s watching .
” “i better go .
i believe they would be very pleased if i nominated colonel lawrence .
” “we can always go to zanzibar .
“or i saw him just after he lit on the tracks .
i had no idea , of course , that she’d fall in love with him .
" fräulein , " he called .
stay in the salt water while he watched the first light come before the sunrise .
” “what boat is that ?
i’d begun to like your husband .
" he leaned forward and looked me in the eye .
he had decided it was not worth while to write a running story and would write up the corrida back
“i oughtn’t to talk about it .
' i think we were rather bad boys .
but it was still the right colour , the colonel noted .
he put the dishes back in the basket and wiped his mouth on the napkin .
' all right , i ' ll talk .
we want to get to the crap game .
' how far would you call it ?
she was sorry , and she knew he would probably not be able to understand , but might some day
” “the dark forest , ” bill said .
that’s the same fellow who put me adrift down the road tonight .
at twenty minutes to nine we were not half through dinner .
" " i stayed here all the time you were in spain and you authorized me to pay these things
the other five stood very quietly against the wall .
" yes , sir , " he said .
he shook the cape at the bull ; there he comes ; he side-stepped .
you come on and join us .
' and tell me , who is the greatest writer in america ?
' ' if that one comes in and you wish to speak to him after he has eaten , just
" " would you please please please please please please please stop talking ?
i’ll wash this one out .
” jack stands up and the sweat comes out all over his face .
from wiping and on some there were red and white striped table cloths ; and there were blue and white
in the five minutes a man came in , and george explained that the cook was sick .
m ' cola saw we were talking about him .
that day and brought the mail .
“they aren’t here until they come .
” the other outfit had been working on their share .
no don’t go away .
there had been too much bad literature made about the foreign names for winds and he knew too many of
' and all the time i was trying to be jolly .
the bartender didn ' t answer him .
' no bull .
inside the keys were all the pelicans in the world and all kinds of birds flying .
down onto the ground .
when can we have it ?
from the bush now .
" " why , we only paid that in pamplona .
came out at _num_ miles an hour with plenty of gas---- " manuel , leaning against the barrera , watching
i ' ll give you the turns .
every one does it here , he says .
i don’t hear them because they are not important .
” “listen .
once the horn went all the way through him and he felt it go into the sand .
inside the booth the colonel lifted the receiver and said , automatically , ' colonel cantwell speaking .
the side and behind him .
cool northeast wind .
it’s like miles and kilometers .
jackson phillip ' s gun bearer and he had been loaned to me .
i just meant who was he ?
" " tonani , " the major said in the same tone of voice , " can you hear me
" i think i ' ll stay rather drunk .
slowly moving .
turner , " campbell said .
they passed like railway trains .
locusts .
i slipped along behind the bar and out through the kitchen in back and all the way out .
small one in trousers , grey khaki jacket , boots , and a big hat , and then disappear as
on the boat with them had gone .
" he said to me .
' in our army , you know , ' he told the girl , ' practically no generals have ever
the colonel looked for added greenness close to the road but could not note any .
and at the white caps on the lake out beyond the point .
want to choke me for ?
“come on , ” the detective said .
" " cochon , " he said delicately , hesitating to use such a strong word .
' ' i couldn ' t tell ?
” claude asked me .
” “it’s not light yet , ” she said .
” “we were in a left echelon of v’s .
destroyed by aircraft .
" i feel like hell , " brett said .
i inherited them .
it was just for a minute .
” “who was it with her ?
" didn ' t want to interrupt you .
one turned and went out of sight under the skiff and the old man could feel the skiff shake as
i have loved country all my life ; the country was always better than the people .
" " did he ?
the world series nearly finished me .
as soon as is light .
“we’ll take her .
besides , he thought , as he looked in the windows of the various shops he passed , the _charcuteri_
” “what the hell do they know about whether a man’s right or not ?
" " what the hell do you put it on the card for ?
i ' m plenty sleepy .
i am supposed to move around and let them see the uniform .
he would have liked to have a girl but he did not want to have to spend a long time
end he turns to be a little child again , though with his manly force , and fills the sheets
" we drove for two hours after it was dark and slept in mentone that night .
” “do you think we’ll find buffalo tomorrow ?
how do you know your weight is on your forward foot ?
“pas bon , ” said red and i tried it again swinging further ahead .
why did he have to get one that makes mine ridiculous ?
' ' you damned liar .
“littless , ” nick said .
" " everybody behaves badly , " i said .
" " when did you see harvey stone ?
i asked if you had been in love—with a girl .
how are you , paco ?
you promised there wouldn’t be .
" look at him now .
i also love you in italian , against all my judgment and all of my wishes .
all week long is my time to make decisions .
that’s all i have now .
now they came down and under the accademia between the pilings where they passed , at touching distance , a
or cut a tree that blocked the body of the car .
” then he’d get up and before he started to cool we’d jog along back to the stables .
there was no light in the room .
riding in the open car , we were very hot and we stopped to eat our lunch out of the
" " your worms .
in his mouth .
something or other needs but to be seen .
“get overboard , ” i said .
we fly to kansas city , don ' t you remember ?
thinking was no good .
' ' all right , city boy .
orchard in three turns and out across the ditch and onto the icy road behind the inn .
" said some one in the office .
, of good family , nor a sportsman , wrote me a letter asking if i could get him a
" brett ' s glass was empty .
” “you weren’t selfish .
roussel .
they were very old and some of the roofs had fallen in .
" but he doesn ' t speak italian .
“thank you , mr .
she ' s over-fendered right now .
“you ought to stop off here , billy , and take a cure , ” he said .
the gun-bearers had taken no part in the demonstration .
" they eat the dinner , " his friend said .
the waiter came up .
the evans boy could have followed him here before .
it is not much more than noon , he thought .
” summer people halfway down the gravel road from hortons bay , the town , to the lake there was
“good-by , mrs .
good pieces and some old maps and prints , a second-rate restaurant disguised expensively as one of the first class
he never cared about anything but bull-fighting .
" i ' ll tell you , " max said .
when he’d find a seed he’d spit it out in the spoon and dump it on the plate .
i won ' t listen .
bad , was death from spanish influenza .
and germany .
“listen , caro , can you let me take five lire for a favor ?
it was too good to last , he thought .
into the water , where it was not too deep .
" you can get that at six o ' clock .
the rain had moistened it but it was not soaked and we saw several kudu tracks , probably made early
that is why we can speak gaily and without pomposity .
” “get me the two quarts , ” i told him .
what you have to do now is watch her when he hands me the money and put her ahead .
there were great odds against a bear bothering it in the daytime because any bear would be down below feeding
' is he bigger than this one ?
“put on your shoes and stockings too .
when the old man saw him coming he knew that this was a shark that had no fear at all
today is friday three roman soldiers are in a drinking-place at eleven o’clock at night .
up for that job of whoring ; whoring hell , it wasn’t even whoring it was like being asked to
" we walked down the boulevard .
this is really interesting .
i had to let go of the grapple .
but i’m afraid it’s just that beautiful light .
can ' t do any harm .
" " what do you keep on doing it for ?
' ' you lousy ostrich-plumed punk , ' i told him in english .
we all shook hands again , using the thumb which evidently denoted extreme emotion .
so he took two of the pills and washed them down with a drink of gordon ' s gin from
there are only differences of opinion and politics .
he just hasn’t got anything inside any more .
” “please take the broth , ” she said gently .
" " they were very good .
' then , as he climbed , he felt the twinges and coming down the other side , he saw
” they were up on the thirteenth floor of a hotel on biscayne boulevard and the bellboy had just gone
i never want to quarrel .
your stuff is all clean and new but you have no lead .
close now .
' chapter xiii they went out the side door of the hotel to the _imbarcadero_ and the wind hit them
then in a week he got the second notice .
will announce dinner , to say , " come and get it , you sons of bitches , or we
what sort of team did berlitz have last fall ?
bottle of white horse .
jack’s sitting on the chair .
the cows were big , grey , striped-flanked antelope with ridiculously small heads , big ears , and a soft
he was not the same-looking man as he had been before he had told her to go .
' p .
she thinks you are a much better guy than you are and maybe that will make you a better guy
” “he better not come then , ” trudy said .
“bad leg , ” he told him .
the old man found it for us below the boulders and to the right half a mile away .
i ' m going to bed .
” “the hell with new orleans in the movies , ” roger said .
' mama !
if he dresses out two-thirds of that at thirty cents a pound ?
it’s a long way from here .
apartment with his wife that now he loved again , the quarrel all over , the madness all over ,
were you scared ?
” the hired girl came out and the down-state man said to her , “you tell mrs .
“really .
“there’s a lighthouse at the tortugas on loggerhead key with a radio that works both ways .
“aren’t you taking a pole , nickie ?
we had dined at l ' avenue ' s and afterward went to the café de versailles for coffee .
” “ten years , ” said mr .
one pair was narrower and taller against the side of the hut .
" they ' re back in the corrals fighting about who gets the beautiful horses , " hernandez grinned .
zest .
luck , had a master plan for the envelopment of the city .
advertisement in the new york herald .
it was sad and embarrassing .
what he meant was that he had taken money for writing something that was not the absolute best he could
in the bottle , warmed by the sun , they were jumping in a mass .
he thought he had him now .
i ' ll ask him later .
but it was the feeling of all those things that the country along the hudson river gave me .
“i’m sleepy now .
the damned things have gotten his goat and he ' s liable to blow that salt-lick higher than a kite
" " you ' ve got mike .
apart .
hemingway was ahead of his compatriots in discovering places and pleasures that would become tourist attractions .
' no matter , ' he said .
run into the wind .
were not met ; on under the heavy trees of the small town that are a part of your heart
she wouldn’t care for it either .
you talk like a defeatist .
“what the hell do they know ?
it tastes like licorice and it has a good uplift , but it drops you just as far .
they can’t stop him .
from the dock .
there were no such lines .
sometime we ' ll go out and get some .
as he bumped the fish and closed his jaws .
he don ' t move around much and that left-hand is just automatic .
” “two hundred francs is a great deal of money .
his gondolieres were paid off and , now , inside the hotel , there was no wind .
" don ' t try and carry too much at once .
always though i found some kind of bait , but one time in the swamp i could find no bait
chapter xxxvi it was a sharp , cold bright day and they stood outside the window of the jeweller '
their faces were different , but they were dressed like twins .
" " talk quiet , " i said .
three shooters rode in the rear seat , on the way to the shooting place .
manuel walked toward him with the muleta .
from where they were we could cross the valley out of sight of its upper end and bending low ,
' i was partners with my brother in a garage in rawlins , wyoming , sir .
” there were three bottles of tropical left .
the carabineer waved him back with his sword .
" at the conclusion of a closely turned pass of the cape the bull slid to his knees .
irrigation ditches , and the heavy green of the alfalfa .
“he claims he’s never taken a drink in his life , ” nick said , as though announcing a scientific
it was a long low pleasant building and there was a trattoria next to it .
' ' _have to_ ?
” “i’d love to do that .
look at jo davidson .
the most gentlemanly way .
” “all they did was pick willard at toledo .
” carl was quiet .
" " hello , brett , " i said .
because this kind of woods makes me feel awfully religious .
but you are not supposed to have a heart in this trade .
, moving with the quickly browsing , then head lifted , long-staring vigilance of all browsing animals in a forest
“what you laughing at ?
it is my city , though , because i fought for it when i was a boy , and now
” “every man has friends .
but now you know how they use it .
" he laughed again .
“that’s what i mean by giving up .
the mist that was just thinning with the first sun , the cypresses showing black in the silver mist and
" signorina !
” she is a little obtuse , he thought .
" " aren ' t you the fortunate man .
" i thought they might , " i said .
have another coffee .
“they felt so badly .
the pistol shot again , making a noise like children rattling a stick along a picket fence .
contempt for the huge , stupid loggerheads , yellow in their armour-plating , strange in their love-making , and happily
he stood there watching the dark , where the things were coming from .
" he ' s an awfully nice man .
" i got up and walked over toward the dancing-floor .
what are you going to have , darling ?
some of the whiskey ran down on his shirt front .
eddy and billy tabeshaw .
“stick it into him .
that is a promise .
" he climbed into bed and pulled the sheet up to his chin .
i was nervous about mike .
he sat up and looked around ; they all watching him .
we just found out they still have the tonic water and they’re charging the same price for it .
the only thing we have killed today and we will kill many krauts in this setup .
” he stopped and put his head under the sheet .
“tomorrow .
don ' t just encourage me .
“why , it would just be punishment .
those good breasts and those useful thighs and those lightly small-of-back-caressing hands , and as he looked and saw her
“he ain’t here .
if you make those passes then they mean something .
' so they walked .
very nice .
chapter xxxvii there was no one in harry ' s except some early morning drinkers that the colonel did not
" won ' t you have a drink with us ?
we went in the house .
in the morning i came downstairs about eight o’clock and got some breakfast .
and god knows that i have seen big ones .
i never get to bed before three o ' clock .
the bull , with his tongue out , his barrel heaving , was watching the gypsy .
there’s not many catholique in america .
' ' but we fought ?
you won’t have any light to film by .
' ' campi , ' said m ' cola , meaning we were going to camp there .
anchor .
" " if i thought you were a spy i would shoot you now , " the second lieutenant said
you must take more beer to loosen your tongue .
the zebra , small rounded backs now , and the wildebeeste , big-headed dots seeming to climb as they moved
or you ?
let’s have a spot of the giant killer , ” said wilson .
“i said it wouldn’t last , ” the other said .
he was very cheerful and said the states were wonderful .
' after all , sheets are sheets and someone has to change them and someone has to wash them .
they were all for the blood spoor and it was like trying to make badly-trained bird dogs hunt a dead
” now in his mind he saw a railway station at karagatch and he was standing with his pack and
but you kill fewer ducks than many bad and fair shots .
there was nothing much you could do about vehicles , but other vehicles coming would normally assume they had been
' chapter two so in the morning , again , we started ahead of the porters and went down and
' ' she can wait here .
tears came into his eyes when he swallowed it .
' ' i was not here in the old days so i cannot tell you about them , but now
” “why ?
this confused garrick who began an oration .
' it is finished , ' he said again and spread his arms wide .
do you know a place called botin ' s ?
the doctor stepped back , angry .
he was very nice about it .
rain .
” “you can’t just quit like that , billy , ” turner said .
it ' s very healthy .
there was a little under six hundred yards of thirty-six thread .
you ' re the only person i ' ve got , and i feel rather awful to-night .
the boatman was too far away to hear a shout .
i had no idea who pioneered venice .
” “you and kibo hunted and traveled all last night .
we do not bargain .
peduzzi stopped in front of a store with the window full of bottles and brought his empty grappa bottle from
in an ice bucket with a glass beside it on the silver tray .
” “don’t ask me any questions , ” baldy said with great dignity .
other side of the course i saw three horses , strung way out , coming out of the trees and
we’ll have everything .
of course it’s not like that at all .
glasses , leaving a little in the bottom .
i think i ought to go to pray at the tomb of my grandfather .
” “that is the way a whore talks .
“good night , ” the other said .
” “it doesn’t bother me driving .
the waiter came over to my table .
from the edge of the road to the timber .
“it’s nothing to worry about .
but there was plenty of prize money .
" " oh , don ' t be a fool .
so we sat and thought deeply for a while .
after a while we came out of the mountains , and there were trees along both sides of the road
thing opposite him , he saw a man figure detach itself from it and he turned his heavy head and
' ' fine .
' ' _con piacere_ , ' the boatman said .
i called to the cocher to stop .
i ' m going to stay here for a while , mr .
s sake !
well , the greeks got it all .
just here .
, for good fishing , poor old odgar , poor old odgar , sleeping up there at the cottage ,
” “i have not thought about it , ” he said .
” “it wasn’t bad .
” pretty soon the telephone rang and they said the taxi was waiting .
at the far end of the plateau boys had climbed into the trees .
" " he ' s got plenty of time .
” “anything you want .
" that ' s what they are--cochons .
" heads up , swinging with the music , their right arms swinging free , they stepped out , crossing
after he ' s gone .
' ' in my quarters .
she is your last and true and only love , he thought , and that ' s not evil .
' ' still i believe cipriani is prepared for them .
' ettore shook his head .
just go in and out .
' you ought to relax too .
retana’s man tucked a baton inside the red cloth of a muleta , folded the cloth over it , and
i could see he was very sick .
“and thanks .
around the cooking fire , all laughing at the tripe bag over my shoulder as we came in .
“it’s in my name at the desk , ” i said .
" monday evening he turned up at the flat .
the line was going out fast but steadily and the fish was not panicked .
eland steak and putting some mashed potato , gravy and carrot on the down-turned fork that tined through the piece
i had heard and read that the masai subsisted only on the blood of their cattle mixed with milk ,
” they went out and there was supper and then the radio , turned to be as quiet as possible
' ' better to die on our feet than to live on our knees , ' the colonel said .
but he noted the readings after taking them twice .
a waiter passed in the corridor with our sandwiches and the bottle of chablis , and we called him in
wilson looked at him quickly .
neither of planes nor of nothing , ” the extremaduran said .
_] _ _num_ d roman soldier_--george is a kike just like all the rest of them .
" " he ' s passed out , " brett called .
the orders were that we would attack with the big red one , the first infantry division of the army
country .
" that ' s truly what he said .
“it isn’t right , ” manuel said .
and the place we were going to fight in , which i had taken a good look at , was
he took the bait like a male and he pulls like a male and his fight has no panic in
she had come out from the tent now after her bath .
isn ' t it ?
was looking at .
why don ' t they bury the dead ?
" " what ' s the matter with chaves ?
they had gone a little too far to the left and droopy waved to signal them toward us .
" asked the big mexican .
“how is the beautiful red-faced mr .
i woke about nine o ' clock , had a bath , dressed , and went down-stairs .
across the canal was the old palace and a wood barge , black and broad , was coming up the
margot was too beautiful for macomber to divorce her and macomber had too much money for margot ever to leave
always get his head down .
francis macomber lay on his cot with the mosquito bar over him and listened to the night noises it was
during the night two porpoise came around the boat and he could hear them rolling and blowing .
i could reach him always , he wrote , through his bankers .
the first thing that you found about the dead was that , hit badly enough , they died like animals
" it wasn ' t your idea .
” nick and his sister were lying on a browse bed under a lean-to that they had built together on
“will you have lime juice or lemon squash ?
stay and listen with me .
” “what kind of origin are you ?
' not for hundred fifty dollars .
” “he comes here to eat every night , don’t he ?
“i’ve got a little here with me in my pocket that i’ve been saving .
" " petoskey .
one at a time .
" " you ought to , " carl said .
of the bed and started to read .
tawny hide , and his big yellow eyes , narrowed with hate , looked straight ahead , only blinking when
” “roger , do you think i’m bad for you ?
" he only writes the big fights .
" the old man asked the bird .
the husband lost and found his papers several times with nervousness .
the far side of the taxis when it got steep going up the hill and he could see that hill
“those must have been trying days .
“what the hell do you argue with this kid for ?
there was quite a little swell that close in .
” “yes , we were up early .
' ' i thought we flew to albuquerque .
he is a great fish and i must convince him , he thought .
the thick-necked man turned and looked at my father and me .
way low below the belt .
inrushing shriek and roaring crash of the shelling ; the metal and the earth thrown like clods from a dirt
the wall .
" " i ' d scalp him and send it to his mother .
juma had looked back and smiled this time and david picked up the two birds , warm and plump and
madame fontan brought up cold beer from the cellar .
' ' he may be very good , ' karl said .
the trees of the left bank made short shadows on the current in the forenoon sun .
" i looked at it .
the money .
then to the gun-bearer in swahili , “take the blood spoor .
the day before we had had good shooting , but that morning we had not seen a prairie-chicken .
vaguely he wanted a girl but he did not want to have to work to get her .
he would finish the cigarette .
" two people came in the door and went up to the bar .
she would like you better that way .
he was standing quietly watching the lights working .
he looked a great deal as his compatriot must have looked when he saw the promised land .
then the man of the job says , ‘what a matter with you , john ?
' ' i understand it now very well .
" where did you get those ?
the two of them , they _were_ the first thing he had suspected , looked at him with hatred and
” “why don’t you go away , then ?
nick turned his head carefully and looked at rinaldi .
home as the dew was bad for them and , though he was quite sure no local people would steal
rolled trousers made and he pulled his side of the blanket tight around him and said his prayers and went
' ' i was only thinking about the car , sir .
he came from valladolid , where the people are extremely serious , and he was a capable matador ; but
you didn’t come down here to get in no trouble .
then he was pulling open the door of harry ' s bar and was inside and he had made it
" " i ' ve never seen you drunk .
i didn’t know you were allowed to shoot them from cars though .
” she paused .
no mr .
i don’t know why he had to get a malady .
a little before the last of the light was gone he whispered to m ' cola that it was now
he must work to get the bull’s head down , so he could go in past the horns and kill
" " send pinin in to me .
“if that’s the way you feel about it .
” “we’re not like that .
i was not sure of their size either , but i judged the range to be all of three hundred
" " she ' s a drunk , " i said .
“you are not angry ?
oldest .
too cruel to deprive her of himself , her departure was a very healthful shock .
” “i don’t think they could have any better sandwich buns or any better barbecue .
at the camp and m ' cola seemed to be delighted when the old man fell going through the thorns
then the concierge was back with the glass of water , and he took four tablets of the type that
we ' ll make a fête before you go .
” asked margot .
i had a water glass like we use sponging and my hand shook so i could hardly hold it .
" " you should not say such things , sir .
odgar and kate talked but he did not hear them .
he had heard us discussing the location at the club and had come to pay a visit .
' charo asked .
" borracho !
' ' my wife still speaks of them .
' but i am very vulnerable on this .
“we have a little place , ” the big one said .
" " is she really lady something or other ?
" " you were quite drunk , my dear , " said the count .
into the stream , then washed the trout carefully in the cold water and then wrapped them in a small
then he cut a pole and put the bag on the end of it , running it through the flaps
he went away .
even bryan could see that .
we call a pistol-slapper a non-fighting man , disguised in uniform , or you might even call it costume ,
we better get a car , i think .
it seemed they were all such nice people .
burning in the road beside the house .
it’s that i paid the accounts out of my own money while you were away and now i need the
you killed him for pride and because you are a fisherman .
” “you don’t need it .
he lay awake with that knowledge for two hours .
" i ' m not one of these chaps likes being knocked about .
' ' tell me , my colonel , what do you really think about tito ?
you know , that must get to you pretty bad .
, his hair cropped like an oarsman , rather thin-lipped , and was considered handsome .
if the circumstances described occur , it is an order .
henry’s the man of the ages .
you won’t !
you cannot stay here and talk like that .
glad of the walk after a day in the car , to find camp up , pop and p .
i always smoke cigars .
' it ' s air-conditioned in the summer and it ' s warm in the winter and i don '
who carried a lantern .
the stuff is going to come through fast .
the blood smell from my hands means nothing now with all that scent in the water .
back to see where the heel of the stock rested against his shoulder .
“you got an indian girl .
“i only mean it in the friendliest way .
and try to put one in the blind without having it hit you .
“you truly amuse me .
i’ll just increase the sodium pentothal .
“let me wash your shirt good too , claude .
two ones showed .
where have i been looking all this while ?
" and what a night !
' ' how was it ?
the black stain on it .
i ' ll be happy with any kudu .
one thing seemed to be on pop ' s mind and before i went in the tent he said ,
" the dirty little bugger , " nick said and smacked the squirrel ' s head against the tree .
what about the game ?
' ' what do you want for the end of the meal ?
if he had sense he would know there was no place .
located where i thought the buff had been when i shot .
“this is for you , mister adams .
there were the small soles and there were a few albacore and bonito .
krebs found that to be listened to at all he had to lie , and after he had done this
” “didn’t you ever want to kill anybody , mr .
he smiled to himself in the dark .
jackson had entered the room and stood before him at a semblance of attention .
but by that time , they were trading so far to the east that the architecture is pretty byzantine for
i will explain it to the manager if you like .
father , the lamp in one hand , tipped the indian’s head back .
that was zurito .
it’s really horrible .
only a nocturnal .
” “he wounded him and killed his askari not too far from here .
his sister sat down at the table and watched him while he read .
“and it doesn’t make any difference to me whether you believe it or not .
" madame fontan came up the stairs with the beer bottles in her hands .
the bull did not respond .
" " you mean all wrong .
it was not her fault that when he went to her he was already over .
“that wasn’t anything , ” i said .
it’s a rotten day and we aren’t going to have any fun , anyway .
but the shark jerked backwards as he rolled and the knife blade snapped .
if you ' ll go upstairs with me i ' ll give you a hundred francs .
” “what do you all do ?
' where did you shoot for , really ?
there they were .
” “kiss .
i thought i must make absolutely sure this time , now , with the dark coming and i held my
i tried it again .
i cannot tell you about it because i have not yet been able to read it .
clubbing her across the top of her head until her colour turned to a colour almost like the backing of
she stood up with just her head and shoulders out .
plenty of luck for eddy , too .
they all roared and growled in african lion dialect .
“if you stand in with retana in this town , you’re a made man , ” the tall waiter said
" them indians , " said mrs .
their heads side by side , their horns against the newcomer .
he never lied .
" in various places , " nick said .
but after european beaches it’s unbelievable .
he held the trout , never still , with his moist right hand , while he unhooked the barb from
" " nice of you , " said brett .
have written about , some of which might have become short stories .
“and you think then we’ll be all right and be happy .
” they started into the weeds at the same time .
to give another capsule .
so , sure enough we put up partridges and , watching them fly , i was thinking all the country
" he said .
” he said .
“right away .
the other picadors went on talking on both sides of him .
if you were in a place where you could sleep in the daylight .
three is plenty in my trade and i made all three .
he wanted to keep himself pure so that he could bring to his wife the same purity of mind and
shakespeare too , though it may seem impossible .
i had hoped we ' d all have another go at the irati together .
i looked around and saw garrick was all right now , letting his mouth run freely again .
“i’d like to meet chesterton , ” bill said .
and looked at my old man and then pulled a sheet off the cot and spread it over him ;
i ' d like to give her a vest made of the whole plumage the way the old mexicans used
” “you’ve been riding in the elevator for an hour , ” the night watchman said .
it was only that and light was all it needed and a certain cleanness and order .
jack doesn ' t say anything .
he had to go wherever they sent him , i know , but i don’t know what he had to
were in .
their priests , commenced filing down the corridor .
the street was lined on both sides with people keeping their place at the curb for the return of the
” “i’ll drink absinthe then .
" i said good night to brett at the bar .
' they were all working fast and the roman ' s women came over and stood a little way away
the doctor smiled at him .
“and in the left hand preferably a pillow .
' ' thank you .
" no .
that ' s what you ought to work up into a mystery .
i agree .
it was bent where it had struck the shoulder-blade .
the tall , heavily built boatman smashing with his oar at the ice and tossing decoys overboard as though he
' ' maybe you make wrong decisions .
i do not wish ever to be brutal .
we crossed all that semi-open country we had seen from the hillside in the morning and going down a slope
he’s reserving himself .
droopy claims to know a good country about three hours from here in the lorries and another hour or so
" no , they wouldn ' t .
he looked at the bull going down slowly over on his side , then suddenly four feet in the air
he explained to the two others .
“yes , don’t _num_ , ” says jack .
and he did not trust it .
hope i gave him the right address .
" por ustedes ?
" unless sharks come , " he said aloud .
” nick had not thought about that .
don ' t do it because he ' s a friend of mine .
” “i don’t like mr .
i never saw a man as clean and as white and as beautiful as steve ketchel .
” “it’s not good for you .
lucky buttocks , the unfortunate chest and the other places .
' the hell with it , ' i said .
we were .
" where will we go ?
it is only unfortunate .
' they are really interesting .
we’ll use up another one .
old bed of the piave were the only lines of defence .
it is the mistakes that are no good to sleep with .
but you’d be surprised .
is your lovely wife and are the children well ?
juma had taken the .
” a simple enquiry outside , the snow was higher than the window .
" " you do .
" " in principle , " para said and smiled , for the first time , showing yellowed teeth .
as we got on the bus he handed us each an envelope .
but you know your own mother was a bitch .
braddocks said .
i was carrying a suitcase with my football things in it , and i walked up the street from the
he waited and we came up .
all roaring and looking at him .
we had something over one hundred and forty thousand dead that year .
" " il faut revenir tout de suite après le show , " madame fontan said .
he wished they would get started .
" you ' re holding him again but you cannot get line .
“i thought they’d killed you , ” he said .
” “i’ll never change it except for cause .
, and all the basques waved good-by to him .
" " but why are you here now ?
out with them .
” “the greatest italian sense .
" i looked through the glasses and saw the three matadors .
' ' we will have anything you wish and what we do not have i will send out for .
“swell .
” “you bet .
" i know who they are .
“what do you mean , kike ?
let me get it out !
by god , you _can_ shoot that little pipsqueak .
it kept up day and night for seven days .
there ' s any amount of it .
" no fun in that for me .
manuel looked up at the stuffed bull .
but not mine .
but a torero can control his fear so that he can work the bull .
this ice breaking was unnecessary and the boatman knew it .
he was sitting at the table smoking a cigar .
' spread those out properly , ' the head-keeper told the boatman who was a game-keeper too .
“how did it happen ?
brett came over soon after lunch .
widow woman runs it .
” “good night , smith , ” whispered the ghee .
that was a fine way to act .
finally we lay behind a tree and i looked around it .
" you know , " he says , " you ain ' t got any idea how i miss the
' ' she knows we ' re here .
, or were walking with their friends or relatives through the dark into the town .
" " i ' m drunk , " i said .
it made me tired , swimming in the trough , and i turned and swam out to the raft .
“i wouldn’t have believed it .
, righteous , pompous about the shutter and inclined to be abusive because we could get no picture .
i ' ve got to do something i really want to do .
to hell with you , lady ashley .
he looked silly when they took him off and seemed anxious to move very fast to do whatever they told
“but the nerve can regenerate and be as good as new .
aachen and i knew that all we killed now we would not have to fight in aachen nor behind the
do you think you got enough last night ?
' she had more ambition than napoleon and about the talent of the average high school valedictorian .
that was the local name for them .
” “we can do it all over the country and all over the world .
] that’s a nice little wine .
then to roger , “you don’t mind writing do you .
about me going to hell .
the road turned off from the main highway and went up into the hills .
they played noisily and with emotion .
” “i don’t have to have anything .
“fancy meeting you here .
" it ' s a dirty habit .
i’d have gone anywhere .
there were hours at harry ' s when it filled with the people that you knew , with the same
they were stiff in the thighs , but he could feel the muscles fluttering .
peduzzi didn’t like her to be way back there .
being awake .
“why doesn’t anyone drink to me ?
' he resumed , ' the place is full of correspondents dressed according to their taste .
nick and the ghee walked down the road into the orchard .
michael and all .
the hospital were happy to see him , and as i say , it was the hour of the evening
they were hateful sharks , bad smelling , scavengers as well as killers , and when they were hungry they
now no good .
' ' you ' re a good man .
do you mind if i sit here with you ?
nick did not want it .
an angle as though to cut someone off .
” “i don’t need it , nickie , if we’re short .
” “good old jimmy , ” he said .
” “what’s the idea ?
to r .
pounding .
, brother .
you drank it all up .
his head went under but he came up and his chin was out of water .
" " tonight , sent by the police , they come to serenade me .
“well , wemedge , ” he said .
and i am going to manoeuvre .
frazer was knocked out by the leaded base of the lamp hitting the top of his head .
sometimes all their lives .
“why don’t you stay in camp ?
" if you work all day in a book-factory you get hungry .
far off in mesopotamia , twenty-one feet of snow had fallen .
, and he and i would come down alone and find the bull .
” “to marry someone else .
you couldn ' t keep your hand in it and i threw a cigarette butt in and a big trout
” “mais nous avons tout bu , ” fontan said .
” “i don’t want to know what they were like , ” ole andreson said .
“there ain’t no moving-pictures of this .
” “do you think he’ll come in tonight ?
here .
i rubbed the rod-case through the dust .
what about these eyes ?
i swear it .
' good night , ' pop said .
" you ' re a drunken fool .
he pushed the bull under and through so the horns passed safely under the horse ' s belly and the
a bunch of mallards , that had been coming in low , were flaring up into the sky , seeming
wemedge slid his head down , his nose touching along the line of the neck , down between her breasts
in a hospital i was in during the war .
the people in the half-track had mines themselves and were hurrying to set up their own road block to cover
let ' s dance , " brett said .
break his nose .
” “looking at you , you cock-sucker , ” mr .
“let’s get really drunk .
this german was a very strange german indeed and none of the good germans liked him .
“c’est vrai , ” fontan said .
“ain’t it a life ?
i opened it .
we won’t ever speak about it again .
' i wouldn ' t call it , as knowledge , any pearl of great price .
' did he think i spent all my time reading the bloody gazette ?
' say it again .
the sound of a klaxon motor-horn so well and so suddenly that i spilled some of the wine , and
' should we get up here on to the bank and skirt this bit ?
“that’s an awfully big shot , ” nick said .
" asked cohn .
“this is for twenty-five lire .
nor bad and have the five sons that go to the five corners of the world ; wherever that is
' ' we ' d probably better just use one at a time , ' the colonel said .
" jack !
can feel , ” she said .
” “say that again .
the taxi stopped in front of the rotonde .
“you want to take him ?
nor be a great success .
and hung it so the trout were deep in the water .
and up the steep slope to where there was a thorn tree with yellow blossoms that marked the place where
answered .
him , ' i said .
if he will jump i can kill him .
elliot tried very hard to have a baby in the big hot bedroom on the big , hard bed .
i hoped brett would be on the train .
the fruit had been picked and the fall wind blew through the bare trees .
a drink because the waiters were all pleasant .
" " i heard it .
“i wouldn’t hurt his career , ” the peroxide blonde said .
from my glasses .
” “i’m remembering from now on , ” the man said .
' it was a beautiful portrait ; neither cold , nor snobbish , nor stylized , nor modern .
” “the two of us , ” said the older waiter .
use or carry .
' we ' ve got to put a stop to him , ' pop said to p .
“no , you don’t , ” the negro said .
“come on and fight , ” jack says to walcott .
' my god , no .
' ' i want you , daughter .
" " bird-shot ' d be all right , " jack says .
he’s just like all these hookers .
soon all the friends had gone off with a rich young and unmarried poet to a seaside resort near trouville
past the estaminet .
' ' no , thank you , sir .
there is going to be plenty of time .
toward the bull .
now he lit a cigar and tilting his hat at an angle in the hallway went out to the café
still this now , that he had , was very easy ; and if it was no worse as it
" " but i thought he was fine with the cape before .
" one hundred and forty-six pounds and twelve ounces .
he started to sock with his hands low down by his side , swinging at walcott .
he wouldn’t sleep at night and he’d get up in the morning feeling that way , you know , when
on both sides .
” “it will just give the milk a little taste .
' he asked the bar-tender shortly .
it was freshly brown with rust .
" monsieur n ' a que trente-cinq ans .
’ but i think it’s better to be catholique if you are .
there was the city itself .
' ' i am stupid , ' the colonel said .
' ' m ' uzuri sana .
the wind was all right and now we must glass the edge of the timber and check on it .
' fisi , ' m ' cola laughed , ashamed of him , shaking his bald black head .
” “they’re all too old for you but kidnapped .
he shot as though he had built-in radar .
“they ain’t coming , ” the nigger said .
“he says the first bull got up and went into the bush , ” wilson said with no expression in
“is war , ” i said .
” “how is it up there on the roof ?
should we have a drink sitting down , renata ?
if you ordered a martini it was made with the best gin that money could buy , and chicote had
“you’re not a member , then ?
he opened it up and held it in his right hand with the blade out straight .
when i woke it was time to go .
“get a rake , nick , ” he said to me .
blaine .
they couldn’t have lived on deck .
' ' not at the start .
" so i can get the cast net and go after the sardines .
the bull looking at him straight in front , hating .
" finally we went up to montmartre .
the drinking , gray-headed picador was sitting with a glass of cazalas brandy before him staring with pleasure at a
she was losing altitude fast and i came up and over and dove on her again .
" " sure , " hogan says , " a letter only costs two cents .
i can ' t stand it any more .
_num_ smith and wesson revolver in a shoulder holster under his left armpit .
" brett ' s not a sadist .
" " he ' s behaved very badly .
" have another porto .
i’m with you on anything .
” “really kill you ?
let ' s drink to it once .
” “a public bar is the only private place there is .
the sword-handler took the cape , looked up at brett , and came over to us and handed up the
“windsor , ” my father said .
a rack on the wall .
' ' this is the best sausage .
" " i thought it was rather odd myself .
he wanted to say something , but he started to cough .
you spoiled everything .
there was a tin cup on a forked stick that was stuck in the gravel by the spring and nick
” and that was the end of the beginning of that .
the fish just moved away slowly and the old man could not raise him an inch .
” “topping , ” the white hunter told him .
it tasted of licorice and warmed all the way .
“go on up , john , ” i said .
" " as they were before , sir ?
of times .
" don ' t you kill him , nickie .
" thanks for coming to tell me about it .
they deserve it .
the bleeding may keep the left from cramping .
" brett turned to me .
“that’s about right , ” he called .
" " no , we can ' t .
” “we’ll get the berries another day .
you’d grow up and have to get married .
“aren’t you going to shut it ?
“probably alone home by himself .
afterwards i slept soundly and well and i woke happy .
” “nights are easy .
sorghum , and , driving easily , his son asleep on the seat by his side , the day’s run
the man lay quietly in the cockpit with his head against one of the sacks .
at night when the lorries finally came in and we were at the house of an absent friend of a
into that impersonal state you shoot from .
" there ain ' t anything to do now .
from the regulars , and we entered the tercio of the cavalry .
to hold anything big .
' and i love you .
i will wake you in the morning .
" hello , zurito , " he said .
“you don’t know them ?
more economical , more mileage .
now the wife .
" going down the dark streets to the hotel we saw the sky-rockets going up in the square .
the man he was handcuffed to wore a cap also but his neck was thick , he was dressed in
doctor wilcox was sensitive about this book but could not get along without it .
" oh , yes , he told me all about it last night , " bill said .
he had gone out to the front from the military academy and been wounded within an hour after he had
“only don’t say it to other people .
“it seems he was feeble of the chest , ” the manager said .
“they are not so stupid .
he was an elderly man with his face tanned to the line of the sweatband of his hat and freckled
“keenness of edge , ” he said .
it is really best to be in bed if you are in a hospital ; since two views , with
" unless you want me to tell you some more travel stories .
ahead there was an iron bridge across a clear , dark-watered stream , beautiful and clear moving , with live
' ' once , ' said p .
" " no , i wouldn ' t like that .
you are either killed or wounded .
" " well , i ' ll see you to-morrow at the courts , " i said .
not enjoy the rest of my life .
" " he ' s nervous and crabby , " i said .
i ' ve been wanting to talk to you .
“i want to go with you , ” nick said .
good advice , anyway .
they are down on the flats and when they get up the wind catches them .
also now i have gained on him in the question of sustenance .
there was nothing they wanted done .
horns , and so the element that was necessary to give the sensation of tragedy was not there , and
damned if he wasn’t .
" " they would , " bill said .
what the hell should i fool with broth for ?
you , a country boy , would be frightened worse than i was .
" the bird is a great help , " the old man said .
friends , and put in some extra time at the office getting things ahead so i could leave it in
i ' ll never tell you about that , daughter .
' i wish the hell you were a soldier with your straight true brain and your beauty memory .
now the old man looked up and saw that the bird was circling again .
" a regular little spitfire .
he had seen it often before .
in his life he had never felt so good .
” “where did you come from ?
" i want to be castrated , " the boy said .
" " do you think they will send americans down here ?
everyone is talented at a certain age .
" " a pernod for me , too .
over the fire he stuck a wire grill , pushing the four legs down into the ground with his boot
” “oh , everyone has money , ” he said .
he laughed always to see the birds tumble and when i missed he roared and shook his head again and
other bull-fighters used to make it look as though they were working closely .
they were slim and brown and very beautiful .
masai no kill to eat .
that same morning i wrote cohn from the office that bill and i would leave paris on the _num_ th
you must stay .
no matter what café in montparnasse you ask a taxi-driver to bring you to from the right bank of the
but he felt the rigidity of bone too and he struck the shark once more hard across the point of
wing sheathing as they fly up .
' and i will .
perfectly my own fault .
the tracks had drifted over .
' ' is she really dead ?
i thought it was really a shame that he could not have his ostrich plumes .
then the window was dark again .
he was really hurt .
" that ' s damned nice of you , but you see i can ' t write checks .
" " how odd .
who was well loved in this town , in spite of all the errors he committed .
one was the bearded peasant in the high boots .
and when one ' s with the crowd i ' m with , one can drink in such safety ,
" madame fontan asked .
" it seems it is very bad .
you don ' t know what it ' s meant to me to have you chaps up here .
then sometimes you just stroll around the hill there and pot the poor beggars in the open .
little closer , the bull watching dully , then so close that the bull thought he had him , offering
" he took down a big one that would hold a gallon or more , from the roof .
' ' i heard something , ' i said .
i could not shoot over the bush without standing .
the load is worth as much as the boat .
the man , whose name was harry , said nothing then because he liked the nigger and there was nothing
to stand on their tails as they climbed .
and besides he’d given us the winner , but i guess that’s what he is , all right .
i don ' t know what the word means and i don ' t want to know .
” “i don’t want to push you out of the widow woman’s chair .
he ate them all through may to be strong in september and october for the truly big fish .
" there ' s no use trying to move brett and mike out here and back before the fiesta .
but kiss me once more first .
odgar and kate watched him , black in the dark , standing at the end of the board , poise
' ' very well , ' the girl said .
you are one half a hundred years old , you bastard you .
molo bring whiskey-soda .
' go to camp ?
the taxi-driver carried the bags in and left them by the elevator .
dashing fellow .
last night i found her not so gentille .
" what ' s it all about , anyway ?
don ' t you trust me ?
of the tagus to attack madrid and they would probably try it from the north too .
but the hurricane took it and it is all gone now except one house that some gallegos built out of
“when they’ve got those positions and we are up that creek they aren’t going to leave their positions to try
" she is the only lady i have ever known who was as charming when she was drunk as when
don’t you lie and don’t you steal .
i went back to him .
" " i won ' t have to quit , " manuel said .
each day we had seen less and we discussed whether it could be the full moon , that they fed
the captain couldn’t have known it was quicksand when she struck unless he knew these waters .
” “i can hardly reel it .
“we got to get back to the car .
the wind was blowing , looked at the portrait , poured another glass of valpolicella and then started to read
the music started .
' my wife asked .
" he looked straight past me and out through the window .
they finally went as far forward as rheims which was _num_ kilometres from the fighting .
jack , ” john says .
we stopped in babati at the little hotel overlooking the lake and bought some more pan-yan pickles and had some
” “i could do nothing , of course , ” he smiled .
” joe asked .
" " i am very reliable , " the interpreter said .
“and now the other side .
then you might start saving yourself .
probably will only have a few birds , so don ' t let him spoil it for you .
a blue beret , start out to follow them down the road , carrying the fishing rods , unjointed ,
" can i have fifty now ?
hill .
he remembered barker afterwards coming into the mess and starting to tell about it .
” “i’ll see , ” frankie said .
should we get started ?
“what’s a doctor going to do that i ain’t done for you ?
' ' you poor old son of a bitch , ' the surgeon said .
“you mustn’t get what i have .
have let it go .
" " he ' s decided he hasn ' t lived enough .
there were eight men in the boat .
he might think it was morbid , though .
this is unofficial .
jumped and ran ; but he was down for good .
m ' cola , still in doubt , verified this and feeling the short , rudimentary teats said ' manamouki
' that where the people lived that were driven off the mainland by the visigoths .
he poured himself out another big shot and put water in it .
' ' i will go inside and see the barone .
but that was not humorous to julian .
“tell her we have to go , ” said guy .
“but i’m not in pictures .
from the striped waistcoated man ' s hand ; noiselessly , and when he heard , or saw it first
” “i like that one better than about the shoe , ” i said .
chapter _num_ i do not know what time i got to bed .
' me again .
he could see the houses of the town and the campanile over the edge of the hill .
the young indian shoved the camp boat off and got in to row uncle george .
“cost you much ?
“st .
i have read mostly the classics and i read the illustrated papers for the scandals .
he watched his sister sleeping with the collar of the warm mackinaw coat under her chin and her high cheekbones
” “blood is thicker than water , ” my father said .
“neither do i , ” said wilson very cheerily .
the knife was out now and he sat on the floor in the widening warm pool .
but i would have to marry someone , i suppose .
he came straight , his eyes on the man .
' ' tell me something more about paris because i love to think of you and paris in the week
it wasn’t just love .
" it wasn ' t low , " he said .
' _piga m ' uzuri .
but it was nearly five before we saw the first rhino come bustling short-leggedly across the ridge of hill in
" " how can i help it ?
liz leaned over and kissed him on the cheek .
i am very sorry .
i don ' t suppose he could be goebbels and he picked up that face in the last days when
“that’s nice of him .
finished .
” “let’s see i got up and went down the stairs and spoke to the concierge and she asked me
" " where ' d you get him ?
” “we’ll fight tomorrow .
liz wanted to make something special for jim to take but she didn’t finally because she was afraid to ask
happening .
" " two gentlemen and a lady .
" " are you trying to insult me ?
a spectacle with unexplained horrors .
uncle george was smoking a cigar in the dark .
i first became aware of his lady ' s attitude toward him one night after the three of us had
' you don ' t have to worry about that .
by the way , i got the bus tickets .
' ' we cannot fail the honourable pacciardi , ' the bar-tender said .
“i’ve got to put gas in her , ” i told johnson .
i waved to frankie , who’d thrown the bowline on board , and i headed her out of the slip
then quickly , “come on back .
" " what shall we drink ?
not in my heart .
' ' joking , pop .
he values me .
it was full of smoke , singing , men in uniform , and the smell of wet leather coats ,
' ' i ' m trying to .
' ' i ' d love to read it , ' p .
potential biter-off of your face at night while you slept , sad yowler , camp-follower , stinking , foul ,
droop says there are some big bulls .
floor of the channel and set the click on the reel .
we had lunch and were ready to start by two o’clock .
“when you got it you don’t know about it .
“in various places , ” nick said .
m ' cola saying , ' no , no ' , to me very firmly and solemnly .
” “you’re good .
i wait and they will not see me .
' leather breeches was the lad .
' t have enough money to lunch at the ritz---- " " what did you do ?
” “how late did they hold people ?
as the boy came in one of the local shooters said .
a ship moves when she is carrying too much sail .
of course , the leader had broken .
" i had a lovely dream , " bill said .
" " what were you doing ?
“you see i am diver too .
“i will describe it , ” he said .
” she asked .
" " they ' d come to see me get it , " manuel said , hopefully .
the old man was talking earnestly to pop , looking him in the eye and speaking slowly , without gestures
he disliked bars and bodegas .
i ' d get a good tailor to cut it and we would make it double-breasted with no pocket on
he wished there were more maps .
” “no , i mean you got to fight it out .
" there ' s a dreadful moment for me just when the bull starts for the horse .
" " why don ' t you care for him then ?
he looked , the colonel thought , as though he had forgotten to change his wig as he grew older
then , “go get abdulla so that he may witness the manner of the accident .
i ' m going to england .
i had always sworn to pop that i could out-track m ' cola but i realized now that in the
girl to deal with when she is still without experience .
one was a big buck .
” “do you think so ?
“no , ” said manuel .
we circled back in the rain , getting thoroughly soaked , saw nothing , found the car , and as
when i came out the bus was crowded .
he never even seen us .
then they were off in a jump and out of sight behind the trees and the gong going for dear
' ' so that ' s what you do .
" that drink ' s mine , " mike said .
" where do you want to go ?
' ' i ' ll be a sad son of a bitch , ' the colonel said .
” “it sounds good , ” i said .
really afraid of them .
many .
my forehead lay against the persian shawl that covered the bed , which was only a mattress and springs set
' ' he told me all about american women , ' p .
he noticed the way the bull ' s feet were .
” “don’t you try it , ” said captain willie .
i get more value for my money in old brandy than in any other antiquities .
' you all made me .
garrick was talking loudly and in a roostery way to the roman ' s women .
” “we’ll have a look .
there were still wingmen then and she’d lurched and started to smoke twice as much and then the door of
, mutilated head slid forward and macomber , standing by himself in the clearing where he had run , holding
” “there wasn’t going to be any of that .
" andré went out the door .
” “we could anyway .
“i’ll save time with the boat .
' the blood spoor that crossed the watercourse .
and bull-fight posters .
he was folding his spectacles and putting them away in their case .
i know you .
" i don ' t want to go through that hell again .
but though we stayed until eleven o ' clock nothing came .
' i do not know , my colonel .
he could not believe that this had happened to him .
and a bath-robe .
the best .
" i say , i wish one would go up , " brett said .
i sat there with the old thirty-eight flopping against my leg when she rolled , and i looked at him
“my legs are going bad .
but you can cut out everything phoney about the illusion as though you would cut it with a straight-edge razor
” he got out fifteen dollars .
yes , he said softly to the girl who looked at him clearly now in the first and best light
' ' let ' s .
” “who was the guy you married ?
" " they ' re all at chapel , " she said .
it will probably be hell though and i don ' t even believe in hell .
" clear up , head , " he said in a voice he could hardly hear .
only what you tell me .
" they ' re a damned nuisance wet or dry .
” “you think so ?
“but we can’t .
then there was a crashing farther away and we could see the reeds swaying with the rush of something through
banner on the radio .
' but not the best dressed .
but they were married .
i am sorry not to be there .
i want to get it .
' ' you climbed better than any of us .
i may lose so much line that i will lose him , if he makes his effort and the drag
it is very good you know .
shot himself , oddly enough .
i know , ' the barone said .
they were hard and warm against his flat , hard , old and warm chest , and he noted how
the first stars were out .
the man looked as though he had been scalped and then the hair replaced .
he worked skillfully with the one hand and put his foot on the coils to hold them as he drew
but all it does so far is just bring us to the edge of misunderstanding , ” the girl said
” “what is an hour ?
i ' ll be down soon .
chapter _num_ when i woke in the morning i went to the window and looked out .
his shoes felt the gravel .
have happened in this town , my colonel ?
i swear it was .
" now you get him , kid , " zurito said .
" i am a professional gambler but i like to gamble .
hares together up the little valley above the saw-mill they had talked of the fighting on pasubio and of the
, call for some one to alleviate their condition .
“we’re both americans .
branches of the trees .
you know , portrait that almost no pictures , paintings rather , move at all .
pleased , as always to carry nothing , m ' cola with pop ' s heavy gun and another water
now he did not know what he was going to do .
was that any way to hunt ?
i suppose every patch of hardwood with the leaves turning looks alike but when you see a beech woods from
except for the pigeons .
our people had seen it at its best and fought for it when it was well worth fighting for .
it was quite new and had a grey imitation leather cover .
” “i’ll bet he wasn’t better than you .
” “don’t you really want to tell me about him ?
” “let me kiss you , ” her brother said .
“opera , german opera .
a big one .
the gare de lyon .
one of the cameramen said he had no speed on the lens of his leica which would stop him in
i think it ' s a wonderful show .
he was holding a great bunch of roses .
the colonel and the head waiter both spoke spanish and since that is the best language for founding orders ,
it was strange how easy being tired enough made it .
” “what’s a whore’s assistant do ?
he hit it without hope but with resolution and complete malignancy .
how it’s run .
life and ruin her with it .
" " they ' re fine .
' then , as we watched , another rhino came into sight from behind a wide feathery-topped tree .
delicate scalpeling with the knife , until , the cape all clear and spread back he nocked through the connection
that ' s why he doesn ' t want to marry .
" " sometime we ' ll go .
” “je veux spend maintenant , ” red said .
' ' well , if he painted any pictures of that country up around there , with those sunset colour
showing a soldier in austrian uniform bending a woman backward over a bed ; the figures were impressionistically drawn ;
" he ' s stale as poorhouse cake , " hogan said .
" nor a policeman nor one of those boys that sell cigarettes .
“can’t you see i’m busy ?
the flower-women were coming up from the market and arranging their daily stock .
it is necessary to kill the individual bull and the individual priest .
” “i’m all right .
, you know .
i thought i could shoot a shot-gun better than i could and i had lost plenty of money backing my
kemal came down and sacked the turkish commander .
the butterfly and the tank on this evening i was walking home from the censorship office to the florida hotel
he couldn’t hardly lift his arm .
” roger reached up to the light bulb and turned the switch .
maybe i should say our rich coast .
gone through one of those rows that starts like this , ' what was the matter ?
i remember , after my grandfather died we moved away from that house and to a new house designed and
they govern , of course , and to govern one has to be cruel sometimes .
clearly not as bad as yours .
“i’ve got to get the ten-forty from montreux .
slop .
and the clouds looked heavy and threatening .
" " i ' m a little tight , you know .
” “that’s no way to speak , ” said the second waiter .
i have no complaints against work .
" " have you got any jam ?
” “yeah .
except , possibly , happiness .
everything dried up and died .
i gave the waiter a franc and we went out .
, only his shadow marking the angle , then lost his shadow as he came through the surface of the
" you don ' t need a title .
” “so everything is understood ?
the bull-fighters went over to the barrera and changed their heavy mantles for the light fighting capes .
you’ve used it well enough .
” “all right .
it was not really hurtgen forest .
but , he thought , i guess those things straighten out .
he is no pistol-slapper , but a big business man ; an excellent politician , the executive type .
i have not been driving long enough to settle into it yet .
we were beaten .
" " i am a writer .
sun on the water .
come on in .
and ahead old compie’s tweed back and the brown felt hat .
she held a big tortoise-shell cat pressed tight against her and swung down against her body .
we might rub ourselves all over with matches , nick thought .
really you don ' t know how much it means .
campbell ' s getting difficult .
" " good night , jake .
' and you sleep better than anyone ever slept .
“wasn’t it wonderful so clear and so dark ?
jack was eating a grapefruit .
elderly woman with him ate with suburban grace .
but i don’t have to go yet , he thought .
we have charming and sound accounts of the flora and fauna of patagonia by the late w .
“i guess there aren’t any this side of boyne city .
the people were very happy .
looking out the window and seeing snow on the mountains in bulgaria and nansen’s secretary asking the old man if
he drank his tea straight and ate three dried apricots and he tried to read in lorna doone .
" " all the time , " said para .
“come on wesley .
not any more .
besides he did not really need a girl .
nick had climbed over many logs that were higher than his head and others that were up to his waist
he had mimicked exactly the expression of nacional .
i have to get these back to you fast , daughter .
do you think andy and dave and tom would mind ?
cola sat below us .
” she just keep on laughing and shaking .
all along people were going to work .
toward whatever he had chosen .
" " i ' m afraid they expected us last night .
he looked ruined .
" good , " she said .
yet he resented being forced to make the same experiment when he already knew the answer .
“i can just remember , ” nick said .
there was a light in the room .
they had hitched the mules to the dead bull and then the whips cracked , the men ran , and
as we crossed the meadow opening where we had first seen the seven and went beyond where the bull had
" they sleep just like pigs , " he said .
nobody could .
a helio .
” “there , ” i said .
” the flyer asked him .
' ' giorgio , ' the colonel said .
“come and sit here , would you mind very much ?
close against the side of the station there was the warm shadow of the building and a curtain , made
" it ' s not open till four .
they took the thing away from his face .
' don ' t shoot men ?
he knew his neighbors in that quarter then because they all were poor .
“unfortunately we are not the column .
” the unhurried waiter asked .
, and i shot him high and a touch behind the shoulder .
" but in the dark now and no glow showing and no lights and only the wind and the steady
we stopped in the shelter of the ridge , me sweating heavily and fixing a handkerchief inside the sweatband of
and his arms and his old legs .
i was sure it would be there ; that some of the manila folders would be there because i could
” he gave the negro a cup of water out of a demijohn .
' i only have a point of view , arrived at after careful consideration , and an estimate of their
” “no , he hasn’t got any con .
the leaves of the tree that moved slightly in the wind .
” so soldier went off on the train to town that same morning .
he jumped almost as though to show me how big he was .
one day i had said that italian seemed such an easy language to me that i could not take a
of the united states , and they , and their calypso singing pro never let you forget it .
it was on that stretch that , marching , they had once passed the terza savoia cavalry regiment riding in
" " yeah .
' ' yes , and he doesn ' t have to read books written by some female he ' s
comrades kept coming in to use the bathtub and the room smelt of smoke , soap , dirty uniforms ,
nor what they did finally .
' he talks wonderfully about the natives .
this same columnist had reported them on the verge at least three times in the past and they had been
soda .
well , i thought , it ' s only a few days .
romero ' s bull-fighting gave real emotion , because he kept the absolute purity of line in his movements and
he stood looking very old and tired from the heat .
" " look , " said mike , " when do you go down to spain ?
m ' cola offered me the water bottle solemnly .
' he went off , delicate as always , so we could talk about it if we wanted to .
the left to be sure the boat was out of any line of fire .
i can do it as long as he can , he thought .
“where did you eat ?
the eyes were already dusty and there were flies around them and the horns were heavy , coarse , and
” “in principle , ” para said and smiled , for the first time , showing yellowed teeth .
he’s in the back of that car .
“truly ?
i will make a report .
on the walls of the houses were stencilled eyebugging portraits of mussolini , with hand-painted “vivas , ” the double
he came like a pig to the trough if a pig had a mouth so wide that you could put
" he pulled the sheet up over his face again .
he had tried a few practice matches with his left hand .
maybe it did not last .
” william campbell held the sheet around his head .
when i was a little girl i didn ' t like the smell of the hops in the carts .
he couldn’t think of odgar dead .
" better save some for your ride back , " hogan said .
one of the short stories hemingway suggested be included in a new collection he proposed in a letter to editor
" tell him brett wants to come into---- " " oh , pipe down , mike , for christ '
and due to my friendship with one or two people i was privileged to be present at some sort of
fly as before out to the lake , but you make a long circle to the right and come out
" " let ' s take the bottle and come back later , " bill said .
" but the head isn ' t worth as much .
' pop asked .
' he asked hopefully .
" the saloon must go , and i will take it with me .
we had stayed too long .
i always joke people and i haven ' t a friend in the world .
' ' my colonel , i have so little political development that i believe all honourable men are honourable .
the wanderobo-masai was a shrivelled caricature of the handsome masai we had met in the forest .
that’s why i’m so expensive .
the bank clerk stared at him from the door of the fascist café .
” “plucky chaps , ” i said .
along a faint trail through thick second-growth .
" he ' ll take it .
“i’ve got to learn to put my hands right .
i ' m paying for it all now .
' ' he condescends to me .
one franc swiss is five francs french .
“why don’t you take them off while we eat ?
" " closerie des lilas .
” the waitress went away and johnson lit a cigarette and drank the coffee .
" i didn ' t know you .
war for my education ?
“give me the sword , ” he shouted .
i had taken six seats for all the fights .
came out and sat in one of the canvas chairs under the open dining tent and read somebody ' s
and explain me the things i do not understand ?
always will be won’t we ?
“you were saying .
“we’ve got to , ” nick agreed .
" you pay me what you owe me or i will take it out of the cash box .
' ' that is me , ' i said , very pleased .
" so they don ' t kill me .
another glass .
in the meantime i can see how he acts and if he shows any changes .
” “yes , ” she said .
the whole way he’s built and the way he moves .
“have you got the paper ?
as he shut the door he saw ole andreson with all his clothes on , lying on the bed looking
” “it’s somebody to see you , mr .
“sure , ” said the detective .
“listen , boy , ” doc fischer said .
crew in odd positions , and around them , in the grass , more of the typical papers .
they were fine trout .
haven ' t i a right to speak italian ?
nick woke stiff and cramped .
the lorries to come up , sitting on the shady porch of the little hotel at babati , then late
“you’re a fine looking woman .
" it was going just the way he thought it would .
he was beautiful , the old man remembered , and he had stayed .
much of this collection’s interest to the reader will no doubt be in the stories that were written or only
dropped the muleta across his body , so his right hand with the sword on the level with his eye
“it’s better to do three and then a media .
i’ve got a frenchman from marseille that’s got his left shoulder in a cast with two wounds still draining that
he was going back to camp .
“senta , caro !
“i was going great till i got hurt , ” manuel offered .
the tragedian and his tracker were in the back .
you made places in your mind that afterwards you could never find and they were better than any places could
all supplies the same .
, and knee-ing forward stride and spears thin in the morning light .
our right and kill any germans that get by us .
“why don’t you put me on next week ?
' we ' ll just ignore it .
" she looked up , very bright-eyed and trying to talk inconsequentially .
" you can start , " he said .
“i got to do it .
" " damned good idea , " mike said .
i was encouraged when he started down hill and in the knee-high , heavy grass of the meadow trailing was
he was happy about the girl , whom he respected and admired , and he was happy for his colonel
" what about the two bright boys and the nigger ?
, to let off the second barrel and throw a burst of rock dust and dirt over his hind quarters
yes , there is a female english .
and more money , with the best of the same places , and some new ones .
doctor wilcox looked up at him , then at me .
kandoa-irangi .
“it bothers my eyes a little , ” his father confided to him .
but it does not mean anything .
swam around him .
” “let’s—” “no .
' they must wander all over here at night .
naturally i do not refer to the sheets in a hotel such as this .
he must not get in a panic about it .
they could .
' the colonel said to him .
you ?
" " i don ' t know , " nick was startled .
' ' that ' s the way it goes , ' the colonel said .
i will indeed .
” “no , ” the man said .
much obliged for the beer , sir .
he would lie in the bed and finally , with daylight , he would go to sleep .
” “manolita has been most kind , ” said the englishman .
the little man’s face was bloody and he sucked his lip and looked at the table .
just what was it you wanted to know ?
i wish to christ he hadn’t got any kind of malady .
so now there were only the two of them left again , running , and it was hard going and
“come astern and put her broadside , ” i said to him .
would see them and watch them breaking branches and not have to shoot , and i would lie in the
” che ti dice la patria ?
" santiago , " the boy said to him as they climbed the bank from where the skiff was hauled
but you can recall those surely .
" " oh , darling , don ' t be difficult .
” “all right , ” nick agreed .
" a plane is sort of like a tricycle .
you can’t mix oil and water and you can’t mix that sort of thing any more than if i’d marry
" " oh , i do feel such a bitch .
he stood to one side of the door and took the colt out of the holster and held it ,
“that son of a bitch , ” fontan said .
“there ain’t anything to do now .
the rope was short as it lacked what he had cut away to lash the fish .
' m ' cola had gone up the hill a little way .
and erasers nor my pencil sharpener that was shaped like a fish , nor my envelopes with the return address
then they pulled up the door of the cage .
“want to eat ?
elected .
they hunt all the time and they kill all the good birds .
' the boatman took him carefully and put him in the burlap bag that was under the bow .
we’ll take the new one .
it was cooler that way and it was excellent beer .
i can imagine .
he was a fine fellow , karl , and it was good he got these extra fine heads .
i ' ve just twenty francs .
" i ' ll go up there .
he liked to get into fights .
” of course i knew it was funny all the time .
hey la mama !
“oh , i worry , ” jack says .
“listen to him cough .
that was what he needed but it frightened him especially when the boat lay there quietly in the willows on
' ' i will , ' she said .
i remember once out at st .
the cold of the night .
" i should have brought a stone .
it sure is sweetness .
" he tied on a fly .
" " yes , " she said .
wilson walked over and looked at the husband and wife sitting there at the table .
green turf , and i hung my booted legs over the side to let my feet cool and drank the
and how does her black sweater feel ?
" the tall dark one , called lett , said : " don ' t you be rash .
' big ones ?
the stone walls were whitewashed , and there was straw on the ground and wooden feed-boxes and water-troughs set against
feel low ?
' when the moon is dark he is not worth eating .
we could not make out anything in the green cactus-like cover .
the concierge was just behind him .
' ' you don ' t know how long a week can be when you are nineteen .
" " nor to tell you how it is ?
he reeled in slowly .
' m sure of him .
man thought .
we called this house the old homestead .
” i had not learned my grammar , and he said i was a stupid impossible disgrace , and he
the motor boat came gallantly up beside the piling of the dock .
" we walked arm in arm down the side street away from the crowd and the lights of the square
" utilize a little , brother , " he handed me the bottle .
“is jack up yet ?
' ' i know nothing about shooting for sport , ' the waiter said .
' the portrait , as before , did not answer .
" " we ' d better keep away from each other .
one should never let roederer or perrier-jouet do the talking .
' he pointed to a destroyed old man who did odd jobs and ran errands around the docks , always
” “will you mind reading mine sometimes ?
a surprise .
well , i can always give her back the picture .
' dans son pays c ' est comme ça .
mud and thatched village in the open clearing on a little low plateau beyond the two mountains .
we’d sit at the café de la paix , my old man and me , and we had a big
no kill him !
" " that ' s the sort of name you ' d have , " the cook said .
what ' s this ?
well , that was all over now , anyway .
she bit uncle george on the arm and uncle george said , “damn squaw bitch !
" no , american .
the chances are , of course , that he will fail .
in the luxembourg on the short cut through the gardens on the way to the rue soufflot (_one that we
i found out it was true when i went up to paris to see .
but he felt very miserable .
" put two bottles in it , henry , " the count called .
manuel was watching the bull .
it was a lovely morning now .
, and after i read the paper through i sat there and looked out at the country and the road
desirable mistress .
the hook would imbed itself in his jaw .
no one expected her to die .
the absinthe made everything seem better .
” eddy asked me .
” “you will tell them .
great friends we were .
“got no use for it , ” al said .
but four hours later the fish was still swimming steadily out to sea , towing the skiff , and the
is there anything you would like to ask pedro romero ?
too involved you give much better value for the money .
you’re the most complete man i’ve ever known .
it was a good place to camp .
' ' damned if i know !
we ought to try for that .
” “not if i was in it , ” johnson said .
" the canary chirped and the feathers on his throat stood out , then he dropped his bill and pecked
” “i was sort of shy with him at the start but now i feel like he’s our partner .
' let ' s talk about something nice .
“you don’t need it .
“only through the individual can you attack the class .
" " i ' ve got to do something .
“one !
" john asked .
we have to do everything we can .
time , all consequently lay on their faces , the two hip pockets pulled out and , scattered around them
clown away , i reached up and touched the wanderobo ' s ear .
” fontan said .
" " i would like to go .
" who says so ?
he prepared the harpoon and made the rope fast while he watched the shark come on .
you must know them .
but she was looking up at the sky behind him and had commenced her small chuckling talk .
” they sat down at the table and the girl looked across at the hills on the dry side of
wine-seller—it’s all right , lootenant .
when he woke there was some one sitting across the table from him .
and then shell the turkish quarter of the town .
” “or until the plane doesn’t come .
this far out , he must be huge in this month , he thought .
and he had chosen to make his living with something else instead of a pen or a pencil .
' we can make or _fabricar rognons_ grilled with _champignons_ dug by people i know .
" he ' s in good shape , " zurito said .
all we wanted was to go early to bed .
and the wind was blowing their hair as they climbed with their long , easy striding venetian legs and the
little birds .
the farmer has it fenced for a pasture and he runs people off that want to fish .
” “but why were they all killed ?
" fish , " he said , " i love you and respect you very much .
' ' inches don ' t mean anything , ' pop said .
“we get into some nice country now .
” nick waited more than an hour in the second-growth timber and his sister had not come .
" " what kind of a row was it ?
of all the girls i had ever known and what kind of wives they would make .
" god knows how much that last one took , " he said .
" said bill .
from france that time .
he looked huge .
the distance was ever safe .
you don ' t care , do you , bill ?
we need coal though .
of that woods .
i don’t have to go .
" they ' re only dangerous when they ' re alone , or only two or three of them together
the crowd wanted the bull changed .
there’s nothing to worry about .
but he had finished it anyway and before anyone had to go to work .
anyway , we went down-stairs to the bar and had a whiskey and soda .
” “it would have been a great pleasure .
t marry me , why , then he ' s had one .
he knew what a huge fish this was and he thought of him moving away in the darkness with the
” “are we going to fight any more ?
he was pretty good in there to-day .
it would be for a man of the same age to enter wall street direct from a french convent ,
' ' after to-morrow .
” “there’s a place where we can see it .
' give me an oar , ' the shooter in the sixth boat said .
hell of a fine shot , everybody says .
our children’s children—what of them ?
" " he ' s a fine boy .
with their pulsing flight to wheel and light in another island of trees .
" chapter _num_ the ledoux-kid francis fight was the night of the _num_ th of june .
it is liable all to be over before i can get there , he thought .
“such a beautiful expression .
, and then mixed fruit for dessert , kandisky told us why the east indians were taking the country over
' ' that river sure doesn ' t look anything like the rapido .
no aunt jemima buckwheat flour .
it was not quite dark .
“the hell he is , ” i told him .
tell them you’ll go back and cook yourself .
” standing slim and straight he made four more perfect passes , smooth , elegant and graceful .
he called him the spanish lenin and then the poor man tried to live up to it and somebody let
a petrol case to discuss the shooting situation with the roman , the old man , and garrick , while
“you killed the first bull .
the red door of the ring went shut , the crowd on the outside balconies of the bull-ring were pressing
“and i want so to see you perform again .
cornelia had said , “you dear sweet boy , ” and held him closer than ever when he had told
bill was awake and sitting on the edge of the bed .
there was also a rhino who , from the tracks and the kicked-up mound of strawy dung , came there
then there was nothing .
it up before they got in , and the motor car started .
” “but they haven’t taken it away .
couldn’t you be my beau , hare , if i was old enough and if you wanted to ?
after all , he said to himself , it is probably only insomnia .
great many people .
“a bugger is a man who has intercourse with animals .
all the same it’s not cheap .
i saw he was angry and wanted to smooth him down .
he had , when successful , been very addicted to practical jokes but he had given them up now .
but it’s useless .
“it was gone .
" " i don ' t want to make you trouble .
at tours we got off and bought another bottle of wine , and when we got back in the compartment
“you want to work ?
retana sat , saying nothing and looking at manuel .
i know how she looks , he said to himself .
and an old straw hat .
“you have confidence ?
garner , " nick said .
she ' s well taken care of .
the sight of the warden lying on the floor of the screen porch and the nearly empty bottle of whiskey
if i ever get any good luck i will be rich .
” that was close to a thousand dollars then .
then he passed the line a little lower on his shoulders and braced his left hand on it .
it’s a shame you’re not still in the church because you could make such a good confession .
” “in hundreds is all right .
“we’re going in to bacuranao and pick up twelve chinks .
“you will have some coffee ?
i ' ll shoot him .
" do you think brett wants you here ?
i can do that a little later and lash the oars to make a drag at the same time .
as he pushed in the sword , he jerked his body to the left to clear the horn .
' ' do you think he will put us in a book ?
" the conductor put the ten francs in his pocket .
' ' but you could put your hand in your pocket only once in a long time and feel them
the cook turned and said to her quickly , " you big disgusting mountain of flesh .
the country became very clear and the feeling of pressure in my head seemed to loosen .
“i want to stop .
they never knew what the old turk would do .
it seemed very cheerful and clean and sane and lovely .
“he pressed on the iron and clearly showed he was no horse-lover .
the group of ladies that comes in each afternoon are there and there is a greek princess , that you
“is it a system always to respond in a different language in switzerland ?
” looking through the window i could see where the wine was stored .
' ' my wicked andrea .
” “and then go to bed” “do you like bed as much as all that ?
seemed like the rear echelon .
we all looked at him and m ' cola knelt and traced the curve of his horns with his finger
turned off on the right .
' ' i ' m going to give them to you anyway .
” “everything should be moved tonight .
i got some stocks and i worry about them .
the peasant went out the door .
you say he didn’t have the treatment ?
, squeezing the leather bag with his hand so the stream of wine hissed into his mouth .
he was right to keep his eyes shut when he first dove in .
' they seem to know what they ' re up to , ' pop said .
across , on the other side , were fields of grain and trees along the banks of the ebro .
the hell with maybe starting something again like i had the other night coming across the tamiami trail .
" " oh , he ' d leave us if we blew out , " i said .
" " should we have another martini ?
wanted a row so he wouldn’t have to take it out in work .
away from him .
" i was looking over my desk .
via in madrid .
“don’t you ever read , jimmy ?
if he wrote it he could get rid of it .
' how are you , my colonel ?
" " it ' s swell dancing .
if you love horses you ' ll get horse-s-- , and if you love eagles you ' ll get eagle-s--
but it was a good story then .
back seat with wilson sitting in the front seat .
was afraid to talk to him until i had the grammar straight in my mind .
" asked the porter .
' are you _sure_ you hit him ?
see if i can remember .
" she never seen me fight .
' we ' re pretty far up for people of our exalted rank , george , ' he said to
“if you ever hunted mountain sheep , ” i said , “you know they can see you as far as
” “no , ” nick adams said .
with .
the front of the houses , and in between the steady drizzle the rain came down and drove every one
" " i don ' t know , " nick said .
but droop had handsome ones beside his cheekbones and others , symmetrical and decorative , on his chest and belly
' ' i ' m sure we get different bulls there .
he ' s not coming .
just carts loaded with everything they owned .
' well , daughter , ' the colonel said .
” “you have italian medals .
we can make better ones .
” “do you think it will do any good ?
fellow bit the eye .
i ' m going to dance with her , lett .
” asked the one who did not drink .
he was asleep with his head on his arms .
so tly he felt the lovely curve from her hip bone up under her ribs and the apple slope of
rim .
john and morgan were sitting on a couple of chairs .
“sure , ” said hogan .
gentlemen , there is one thing i would like to have you remember .
she was supposed to be ill .
they must have opened fire at too long a range .
" i asked the other one .
i won ' t shoot until they are all out .
without trouble .
” max looked at george .
” “look , ” roger said .
all this in whispers .
and if we had tanks that were a little bit faster the anti-tanks wouldn’t bother them the way it does
' ' yes , ' the boatman said .
" he ain ' t hard to hit .
he put on his coat and followed the porter onto the platform where the snow was falling .
my wife has just died .
“it was always yours as much as mine .
regarding the sex of the dead it is a fact that one becomes so accustomed to the sight of all
they float a long way with life belts too .
all from some certain place .
they rise high out of the plateau .
and she said , “packard , you don’t have to care about culture .
a work of fiction .
he did not know , among other things , that the girl loved him because he had never been sad
" " well , i wrote suggesting it to brett .
” “probably it’s better for me to go on the way it was in the story .
let the world get on with the mess it had gotten itself into .
“i wouldn’t be afraid , ” he said .
them all .
you got class all over you .
“give me bacon and eggs , ” said the other man .
' some of those society kids ' ll say to them .
, where the dried-breasted old women and the shrunken-flanked , hollow-ribbed old men hoed in the cornfields , through miles
" " i ' ll bet he wasn ' t better than you .
no , he said , he hadn’t .
they made a fire with driftwood .
he also drank a cup of shark liver oil each day from the big drum in the shack where many
“me , manolo , ” manuel said .
you want her because she can’t help it and you lose her because she can’t help it and a man’s
don’t worry , papa .
elliot became much brighter after her girl friend came and they had many good cries together .
already , so early in the morning , it was very hot on the bridge across the river .
” she turned to the man who sat by the cook .
“he loves the sun , ” the american lady said .
stick to sheets , billy .
“you have observed , ” he said , “keenness of edge and simplicity of action .
" light brisa , " he said .
leave the door open when you go out .
' but you two hurry up with your drinking .
you ' re smarter than i am , although you haven ' t been around as much .
on the morning train for san sebastian .
" no , he ' s not , " said zurito .
” “you got to get all right .
face .
served the room , appeared , short , dark and with his glass eye in the left eye socket ,
” “we have observation on the road where the point will come from the two vehicles .
so when i see plane come over there when we are in trenches there at fuentes del ebro i look
too fine i’m afraid .
i know what he is doing .
" " he was a great manager , " the boy said .
" georgette turned to me .
if an operation was successful they were happy to have motion pictures of it .
' ' ah .
" the girl smiled brightly at the woman , to thank her .
" mummy would be pleased .
he heard george breathing and kicking in his heels just behind him .
at what it says , or does not say , of me .
" agua mala , " the man said .
i have a boarding-school appetite .
he said to himself .
' ' later , you may have it taken with great care to my room and have it wrapped ,
you do not want to kill anyone any more ; ever .
' ' but soldiers of our time .
" if it doesn ' t buck you .
name of the man who pulled the trigger .
he’d have , maybe , taken a trial trip with one of razzo’s skins early in the morning after just
“come upstairs , ” he said .
his left leg , and then his weight wasn’t on his leg .
sometimes they would swim easily in his shadow .
” i went in the perla and sat down at a table .
tom saw me looking at her and he said , “come on .
' it is wonderful , ' the colonel said .
in the glass .
” “see ?
“stick around , jerry .
" " how strange !
” “i don’t , ” he said .
" i ' d have killed him .
' some people probably like them .
' yes , b ' wana .
the roman was off already .
caps and working clothes came out each carrying two bottles .
the driver leaned his head around .
jim held her tight against the chair and kissed her .
” she had gone to kill a piece of meat and , knowing how he liked to watch the game
” “we should see the general .
i had no confidence in anything but its noise any more .
he ' s not a damned show-off like me .
more joined in .
" " have another .
haven’t i a right to speak italian ?
' ' don ' t be patriotic , ' i said .
“say , freedman , ” jack asks , “what nationality is this walcott ?
' ' not since we sat at the table .
i suppose what i looked for then , was patches of shade when we fell out , and wells in
they were too far out for him to hear what they were saying .
“he’s down in the swamp .
we know his boat .
it was dung from elephants that had just crossed the road , and in the cold of the evening you
' ' an easy assignment , ' the colonel said .
all this time the roman and the old man had been standing saying nothing .
i could see her rounded over and she looked a mile long under the water .
he , nicholas adams , could have what he wanted because of something in him .
but tell me a little now for this week only .
" " it is a very interesting system , " the count reached down and gave the bottles a twirl
a man shot off a bicycle is always a sad thing to see , although not as sad as a
it was quiet in the café .
, his weight on his horns , wedged against a tree .
get them off fast .
the doctor came running from the corral where he had been sewing up picador horses .
those make the failures .
i walked back under the hot summer sky to the farmyard to wait for the point .
he looked down into the water and watched the lines that went straight down into the dark of the water
” “well , it’s over .
' too far , ' i said to m ' cola .
nobody that ever left their own country ever wrote anything worth printing .
salt and thousands are slain .
i thought you would understand .
up here the country was quite barren and the hills were rocky and hard-baked clay furrowed by the rain .
“now we’d better get a fire going so i can put juma back together again .
the sun was on the old man ' s left arm and shoulder and on his back .
and pivoted ahead of the bull were all one sharply etched mass .
his running and sweating out again , and him and i were the whole stable gang .
the train , so brought her here for _num_ days rest with old friends of ours .
' ' shoot them yourself .
and bought another drink .
they both lay there not moving now .
' the colonel said , and the cruelty and resolution showed in his strange eyes as clearly as when the
" the police tell us we have to come--so we come .
' ' colonel , do not say anything subversive .
employed , for their mutual pleasure when speaking , alone , with the concierge .
" " i ' m serious .
" " i don ' t know where she is .
if it didn’t get so damned mixed up he could follow it all right .
" she wasn ' t looking at me .
” “down the creek , boys .
there is no question of civil responsibility .
" here ' s a taxidermist ' s , " bill said .
that’s the way i meant it to be .
if you never thought about it you couldn’t lose it .
“don’t you like my pan ?
that was one of the few things that he really knew .
, ” he said .
but it didn ' t even up .
range .
“isn’t love any fun ?
' ' you don ' t want anything american ?
he ' ll take it .
i would leave a call at the desk .
if he missed anything he would get it out of the morning papers .
a motor-car turned off the main road and came up the side road , and stopped beside the house .
' the rhino looked so huge , so ridiculous , and so fine to see , and i sighted on
the shadow of a cloud moved across the field of grain and she saw the river through the trees .
there was only the faint edge of the odour because the wind had backed into the north and then dropped
well , about eleven o ' clock jack passes out and i put him to bed .
' ' you may be member material .
” “aren’t you a wonderful guesser ?
his back arched , feet straight and trailing .
" " write this afternoon ?
' ' i ' d kill a big enough one .
" " give me the gun , " fontan said .
neither of the men in the buggy was talking but nick adams smelled them as they went past and he
braddock put in .
you know i like tanks too , only we don’t use them right because the infantry don’t know enough yet
" " you haven ' t any values .
around his neck and on his chest was a big wreath of twisted garlics .
then came toward us .
what ' s it to you ?
" " it was bad .
braddocks brought up somebody and introduced him as robert prentiss .
he got a bit above himself .
” “ain’t got any beer .
” “thank you , nickie , so much .
emmunds ?
that’s a free day for him and he will have had a rest .
“one place is just as good as another to run over a skunk .
lovely as the theatre can be .
he jumped .
give us this nada our daily nada and nada us our nada as we nada our nadas and nada us
” “carry him out , ” said a flyer .
” he was mad and he was plenty brave .
he talked for a long time .
” “they are just a part .
" " as long as you ' re in there you got a chance .
” “he buys a little stuff here once in a while .
” “wunderbar .
his face , or that maybe his mother had been frightened or seen something , or that he had ,
live on rice .
but you must have it with me .
she is sleeping with it spread out on the pillow and all it is to her is a glorious ,
where is he ?
we’ll go to have a look at the blood spoor .
it was a negro’s voice nick knew from the way he walked that he was a negro .
' whatever that was .
what are you going to do when it ' s over and we go back to the states ?
we went out to walk around under the arcade to the café iruña for coffee .
" don ' t get drunk , jake , " she said .
the movies are fine for a bright boy like you .
toward the pine trees .
, and the flat , dry , hollow drums tapped it out again , they all went up in the
m ' cola shook his head , his face grave and sweating .
but it isn ' t true .
" he had taken up utilizing from bill .
he shoved the port clutch in and swung out away from the mangroves with the tide .
haven’t we seen enough fights in families ?
" those peasants are beasts , " said the innkeeper .
' ' thanks , ' said the colonel and went out .
' i sleep when i am sleepy .
“there , ” said peduzzi , pointing to a girl in the doorway of a house they passed .
bill laughed .
; only his ruined hand that searched for the island in the great river with the high steep banks .
” “all , ” said enrique .
“i’d scalp him , ” he said happily .
was a lovely girl and very beautiful and kind—” “i was never jealous of her , ” the girl said
you know damn well i don ' t .
hit it and they kept snapping it up and spitting it out as it floated until it went to pieces
' that ' s what you can base on .
" sit down .
what was this ?
at first they made one flight and stayed stiff when they landed , as though they were dead .
“get out .
" thank you .
juma would have gone on .
we found the other horn below in the grass and i screwed it back on to its bone base .
i ought to be able to get a good map in new orleans .
” “it is nothing , ” said the doctor .
she was his mistress for over two years .
“the operation was not a success .
' he ' s only wing-tipped , ' he said .
” “you know damn well we ain’t been carried up to no miami , ” he told the nigger .
the ladder was leaning against the roof and i found the old berry pail beside the woodshed and climbed the
be , he saw a fish hawk flying .
there with my head back looking up and there was a million birds above and all around .
but you always had to count and count fast after the bombardment to know how many shooters you would have
but it was still cold and they had a wonderful time eating and drinking and the city had seemed gay
" but why did you fight ?
“want a drink ?
but i think it means a man who has never worked at his trade (_oficio_) truly , and is presumptuous
the fiats were hanging up in the sun .
" i don ' t want staring at just now .
i tried to get them over it , ” he said .
" he had only fought twice in spain , they couldn ' t stand him there , they saw through
“don’t worry and don’t do anything bad .
' ' say it .
my god , that man can talk .
but too many books are bad , ” madame fontan said .
he never brought _her_ no good luck .
i see the point of valéry ; although there is much snobbery too .
look .
” “i don’t want a porter , ” mr .
i did not see how we could lose him .
, and you ' ll like it ?
" " loaned the nigger some clothes and went around with him to try and get his money .
“can’t do that , ” said wilson .
' by god , ' pop said .
“spezia is my home and italy is my country .
it was untrue .
you get a big enough cut , don ' t you ?
over his eyes , leaning forward , the long pole sticking out before and behind in a sharp angle under
the reeds there was another rush of something heavy through the tall stalks .
what are birds coming to ?
the human body should be blown into pieces which exploded along no anatomical lines , but rather divided as capriciously
cohn ' s face was sallow .
c’est très bon pour la santé .
“today we have got something very good .
the sun was nearly down .
' poor papa , ' p .
i heard a noise behind us and turned my head .
" i asked just to be friendly .
then they come fighting out of the door of the index .
' ' too complicated to explain .
' i don ' t have to .
pedro romero smiled .
it isn ' t the sort of thing one does .
at one time when he was feeling so badly toward the end , he had thought perhaps it was a
after you’re grown-up they send you to the penitentiary .
“but they won’t strike , ” nick said .
” “let’s cut down that way , ” nick said .
" " all right , " nickie said .
already i have told you .
i can see very well inside and now my head is better all the time and i can remember and
you love them .
come through the warehouse and get out on the dock .
i’m awfully anxious to see it .
' he asked the boatman .
he had not been unhappy all day .
she stopped in front of us and took a telegram out of the leather wallet that hung against her skirt
horthy’s men had done some bad things to him .
the barrels of the guns that had hung on the deer feet on the wall of the log house lay
" " don ' t talk like a fool .
there’s other things that can’t talk .
" manuel sat down ; his cap off , his face was changed .
" his face was sallow under the light .
” nick asked his sister .
then he put more on and rubbed the back of his neck .
mirth provoking was the hyena that stopped out of range by an alkali lake to look back and , hit
he had been there all night and was very sleepy .
“what particular violation ?
the road and the heavy sound of men falling and the clatter of equipment .
he’s been training jack .
time to observe them , from a room the temperature of which you control , are much better than any
what are you doing here anyway ?
he could have seen nickie kill the buck .
" i heard them yell .
if they can ' t , you reclassify them .
why no spotlight or a searchlight on this field ?
around to the garden .
but i never sent in for them .
it was all a lie both ways .
so there it was .
the miracle .
death he had walked away from had found him when he was just over the ridge , clear of the
then not seriously .
” “i’m sorry , ” she said .
or they do not know what they want .
a fog had come over the mountains from the sea .
” “ole andreson ?
his life work , which was even more dear .
or , maybe she is protesting , he thought .
” “i hate to because it’s happened to other people and to better writers than i am and that makes
aren’t you sure ?
" he ' s so damned nice and he ' s so awful .
he liked the girls that were walking along the other side of the street .
' portrait , ' he said .
i ' ve always been a lucky son of a bitch .
but it was quicksand she’d hit and when they opened the tank she went in stern first and then over
i made as though to take a swing at him and said , ' shenzi !
they came around a bend and a dog came out barking .
they ' re all right .
i’m shy about it and very frightened .
i don’t know how to say it another way .
he smiled his best and clearest smile that came as solid as the sun rises .
but more than shame he felt cold , hollow fear in him .
_num_ st roman soldier—we’ll have one more round .
' ' _para sempre_ and his brother , ' the colonel said .
“you take her , ” my father said and i took the wheel and turned her out toward the point
of the dead .
growing there with blood on it , it was evidence .
he thought of the trout somewhere on the bottom , holding himself steady over the gravel , far down below
“you oughtn’t to talk to me like that .
everything is muy raro .
oh , he must really be a bad one , a thoroughly bad one , he ' s so fine
“i spoke to you .
" he laughed , then grinned and tapped his stomach .
blindy probably preferred the pilot because the machines were right along the left-hand wall as you came in and faced
the quai at smyrna indian camp the doctor and the doctor’s wife the end of something the three-day blow the
mediumbrown is a plump , compact , succulent hopper that i can recommend as far as one may well recommend
hadn’t had time to be afraid with the buff .
he ' s all square .
” “they want to get sick , so they’ll know they’re drunk .
the house where my family lived was burned by the english .
“i’d get back in the car , ” wilson said .
“don’t kill me , ” the good lion said .
then she would cry again .
i have been around very much .
“well , here’s to the lion , ” robert wilson said .
brett was talking french and he was talking spanish and a little english , and laughing .
and hollis kept hollering , ‘bite it off !
how do you think it makes me feel ?
the waiters took over the madrid place and they are still running it , but the good liquor is all
i wish a flying fish would come on board tonight .
you ' re old enough , so it can ' t hurt you .
though i suppose among those spiders who eat their mates some of the mate eaters are remarkably attractive .
“i don’t like any of it at all .
they were fond of each other .
fake european standards have ruined you .
, hit at ten yards , who raced his tail in three narrowing , scampering circles until he died .
“i hope to god they don’t have fighters like that now .
” “f— you , ” said the lieutenant of artillery .
inside , the electric stove seemed to give no heat and rising from his writing-table , he sat down upon
he was comfortable but suffering , although he did not admit the suffering at all .
current that mounted icily his thighs , nick thumbed the reel hard with his left hand .
did you see how friendly he was coming back from the widow woman’s ?
, always , with any lapse of vigilance or of security .
then i sorted out the carbons , stamped on a by-line , put the stuff in a couple of big
" " splendid chap , " said mike .
” you see , he’d been a good man once .
” “not very long .
it has great benefits .
his ear was cut by popular acclamation and given to pedro romero , who , in turn , gave it
“well , nickie , ” his father said , “was it a good day ?
" " we are catholique , " i said .
“we started a crap game .
we sat in the shadow against some rocks , out of any breeze , watching with the glasses as the
he brought me here .
it was partly in the shadow .
” “attack on the farm .
two officers holding this length of netting at alternate ends , or let us say one at each end ,
” “how long has he been married ?
or maybe that is not true .
if we lived by the ocean all the time i’d have to get my hair cut .
" so you ' re going to be one of these popular champions , " jack says to him .
not , but it is appropriate and enjoyable to read them as separate stories , as they first appeared .
“get up forward and give me the depth .
you can take the rifle until you get tired of it .
“i can see we’ll have to go .
“are those the only things you have to turn in your suit for ?
" " where is he shot ?
nick watched his father’s hands scrubbing each other with the soap .
" he knew quite well the pattern of what could happen when he reached the inner part of the current
gee , i could listen to my old man talk by the hour , especially when he’d had a couple
use your head , bright boy .
" the wind blowing all that sand and that arab with his camel kneeling toward mecca .
, me hating all righteous bastards now , one absent american friend especially , having just removed myself from that
” “i am in love with her , ” pinin said , “but i do not write her .
“i don’t want to make any difficulties , ” johnson said finally .
" " ask him who shot the russian .
” “five years ago , he says .
we made the crossing all right , the creek was down and the banks had dried and i looked back
" " why are you going away ?
like now only lots to eat .
it was only five blocks more , but when i saw chicote’s doorway i thought i would get a quick
as good as i can , he told his conscience , and i’ll write at least four good ones .
she noticed where the baked red of his face stopped in a white line that marked the circle left by
the road was a track over shelves of solid rock , worn by the feet of the caravans and the
they were all varyingly honest and they were all weak except one ; he would have to make some money
” “gee , ” she said .
then after a while it was better and i lay in bed and listened to the heavy trams go by
' _bathi_ , b ' wana .
he had sung when he was by himself in the old days and he had sung at night sometimes when
' i was thinking just now of a man named georgie patton who possibly never told the truth in his
and her remains dumped on the common boneheap .
that is all , gentlemen .
go to one of those kraut joints like valhalla and not be able to get along with the people .
arrogant , swinging , they looked straight ahead as they marched .
” “you don’t have to be jolly if you don’t feel like it .
though i was a writer and supposed to have an insatiable curiosity about all sorts of people , i did
you know almost no one does and you don ' t use scent .
“that doesn’t make any difference , ” bill said .
leaning on their spears , looking after us and smiling .
wall of the hut and drank beer from gourd cups that were brought by a young girl and her younger
, and looking back , the plume of dust of the lorry coming with the skinners and the men to
it can steal from anything that it is better than , anything that is not a classic , all classics
also i was sweating from pushing on the car and from chopping .
we had not been gone ten minutes and were moving carefully up the stream bank , when , without warning
would you like that in writing ?
and when it isn’t true it’s silly .
deep , wide , silver and barred with purple and interminable in the water .
but happy in the sight of the car and pleased by my knowledge of a foreign language , i went
' the girl said .
” on the forearm , from just above the wrist to the elbow , were small blue circles around tiny
they sat down in the shelter of the warehouse and jim pulled liz close to him .
" can i get supper ?
it , a pair of shorts , his fuzzy wool curler ' s cap , and a knitted army sweater
marsala ?
' ' how are american women ?
there are always plenty of houses in this town .
after a while i ' ll make up my mind to go out .
when he says no that lets us out .
' you were a foot soldier as i was .
and what isn ' t nowadays ?
' i guess the mountain shut off some if you were gone the other way trailing him .
' for the moment .
' the colonel , who was a sub-lieutenant again now , riding in a camion , his face dust ,
" " weren ' t you , though , " brett said .
the geneva convention which was alleged to govern the operation of war .
don’t make fun .
" i brought a towel and he wiped the bottle dry and held it up .
“it seems so awfully simple and as though there were no problems at all , ” the girl said .
they had hung a wreath of garlics around her neck .
' or look away .
“but couldn’t you get a substitute ?
but the good lion had flown all the way from africa and africa had changed him .
” “where have you been ?
they waved to him .
you could not see into the sun in the evening , nor on the heavy shadowed hillsides to the west
the day before we had had good shooting , but that morning we had not seen a prairiechicken .
and tomorrow .
" " i don ' t know , i just brought her .
” “good night , ghee , ” kate said .
" you can ' t tell him not to , " i said to guy .
' please put me through to her at once , ' he told the concierge .
i’d be perfectly happy .
a stairs to get to it .
' did you ever see their ears ?
i went out on the first roll with four kings .
the trees that had been killed in the forest fires were grey and thin and dead in the mist but
it’s a slave country .
kept up after the pace had destroyed him by noon .
waked me at six .
they jumped the stone wall and came jammed down the stretch toward the big waterjump right in front of the
the hell with being too hard to explain .
" they ' re always talking about kikes , these big irishmen .
" i say , jake , i don ' t want to ruin your rugs .
they’ve got a buoy on her now .
' he went out , walking as he had always walked , with a slightly exaggerated confidence , even when
on this trip .
“where was i ?
the snow looked very white and pure and unreal .
" i am a very reliable interpreter .
" soldier would ask .
” “come in back of the post office , ” mr .
she was as beautiful as always in the hard , morning light that came across the flooded square , and
" " i want to get back .
“but you were the one said we had plenty .
' he reached into his pocket and unscrewed the top of the medicine bottle and shook two of the big
* * * * * a month later p .
he kept the sword in the luggage compartment behind the seat in the car and slept with it in his
he’d busted away from his old gang out at maisons and seemed to like just sitting around on the boulevard
they haven ' t come back .
i would certainly try to .
you didn’t think about it because you never lost it .
" sit down , " brett said to him .
she’s just built that way .
“did you ever see a man cut with a razor ?
" he ' s got something , " the old man said aloud .
” “we’ll go there .
it is just something that you need .
it ' s a wonder they ever find any one to marry them .
i don’t see any end to it ever , he thought .
but he felt , as he dropped the tip to ease the strain , the moment when the strain was
' ' very well .
' ' but i don ' t think it ' s tough , sir .
' what ' s he done ?
up the hillside , there was a deeply worn game trail that graded along the bank under the heavily leafed
“you get along now , suzy .
_gran maestro_ is there any more in that wretched bottle ?
he was walking along the top of the cars slapping his arms and singing .
she had that all night and the next day when a detective came and searched the flat for the suitcase
" no more tonight .
“i really have .
gentlemen the sea change a way you ' ll never be the mother of a queen one reader writes homage
i ' ve been through such hell , jake .
but as the old man watched , a small tuna rose in the air , turned and dropped head first
a natural history of the dead it has always seemed to me that the war has been omitted as a
" " talking , " he said .
" " i won ' t worry about that because it ' s perfectly simple .
" " why do we never go to pray at the tomb of my grandfather ?
“he ran , didn’t he ?
the water was deepening .
" " robert cohn did , " mike put in .
” “why , nickie ?
“you look so much better , ” she said .
float with no significance against one single , lasting thing--the stream .
' ' bad luck .
the exact distance and when the two young men came around the corner which was formed by the apse of
dick said something in ojibway .
there were baskets with pretzels in glazed paper sacks on the tables and cardboard pads for beer glasses in order
up ahead now there was a crossing place of gondolas at the santa maria del giglio and , beyond ,
" we must go , " i said .
it was raining .
' stand by it once , ' he said .
he was no longer interested .
in his left hand and the sword in his right , walked out toward the bull .
“but i wish you’d do it the other way .
” “just once .
“you can take it or leave it , ” retana said .
” alone in the center of the ring the bull stood , still fixed .
" i didn ' t have any right to ask you .
liz hadn’t known just what would happen when jim got back but she was sure it would be something .
when i hear the rain i can see it on the stones and on the canal and on the lagoon
and you walked on the brown , clean , springy-needled ground with no undergrowth and it was cool on the
picador was already half-way out of the saddle , lifting his right leg clear as he missed with the lance
m ' cola and droopy were casting about like hounds and i thought they were at least fifty yards too
“that damn big buck , jimmy , ” said d .
so i cut them all off their backing--you know , they put them on a strip--and gave them all around
the two men on the next seat were about the same size and build but the one on the aisle
“i respect those who have faith even though they are ignorant , ” the thin one said .
was from the centre near saint-etienne .
“have you seen a french comrade pass through here ?
“just you drink a cup of this hot coffee .
m ' cola went over and looked and they both followed it a little way , stooped close over it
if we had lost the old piave and were on the sile they would move it back to the second
“they got a good crowd , ” jack says .
moritz on the ice before my mother died , and about during the war when they had regular races down
we can get good mushrooms , too .
' ' and we would throw all the left over grenades away and bounce them down the hillside coming back
” “it can’t be worse than this one .
lashes ?
that means he is tired and going with the current .
" " i won ' t fish , " brett put in .
turned himself and the raincoat , with the two hands in the pockets , towards them .
" that man will see you .
he ' s keen about it .
‘give my regards to your morbid brother and ask him to stop by the emporium anytime he is at sheboygan
" bring them here .
” “what i wanted to tell you was that drinking this made me feel the way i feel when i
they all raised them .
” “are you hungry ?
he anticipated every move of the enemy force and comported himself so brilliantly that he was promoted over many better
the village water supply was two streets down the road .
later , except in retreats , it is rather stupid .
you’re a good shot now .
even with the large aperture .
' when i look at you i believe it truly .
he came out and said , " i ' m coming with you and i ' m going to pay
air dancing .
silently before lifting the other , walking as quietly as in a dream or a slow motion picture .
“come on , you bastard , ” the detective said .
that was the crowd .
the land breeze brought at morning .
as he listened he heard the wind in the laurels close beside the porch , the horn of a taxi
, when he , the colonel , had re-entered the room after having left it , presumably for some time
one of the worst type .
the heels touched .
' i offered the glasses to p .
' the stones are in my pocket .
' ' andrea is so nice .
” “i am of those who like to stay late at the café , ” the older waiter said .
the three roman soldiers are a little cock-eyed .
” “not like this .
the salamander was very small and neat and agile and a lovely color .
he looked at him and took it back .
you know where it is .
he did not know the name of rigel but he saw it and knew soon they would all be out
* * * * * the next afternoon i drove out to fontan ' s , through the shade of
he climbed the steep road with the skis on his shoulder , kicking his heel nails into the icy footing
” “i know , ” she said .
" that ' s the side our bum tire ' s on .
no money .
he was about the same size as al .
” “all right , ” george said .
' ' _al sangue_ , ' the colonel said , ' as john said when he spoke to the waiter
” “my father was killed by the north americans in cuba while he was there as a conscript .
' tell us the rest of that .
i heard brett go into the room next door .
” they were eating now .
" i told him .
" up in the hut i used to think about it a lot .
" andré held tight on to the gun .
" i looked around on the grass at the foot of the elm-trees .
" you shoot , nickie .
' ' i don ' t think you do , richard , you would not have done something all your
" " if he comes .
" it is from red lodge , " he explained .
' " ' every time i went to work in the shed at night .
' ' we were six .
i put on a bathrobe and slippers and went to the door .
he started jumping in those long lopes and every splash would be like a speed boat in a sea .
we lay where we had set up and the two vehicles covered us from behind the manure pile .
each battalion is composed of five companies .
one small town , then another , another , then a big town , then start over again .
" " the way i get .
retana smiled at him and said something .
' ' i never mind it .
” “all night’s three dollars .
i have been around a very great deal .
there had been this to do .
“hola , amigo !
" they climbed out through the ropes and hogan came over to me .
' i understand the necessity of the big executive being removed from contact with his working people .
" " no , i don ' t believe it .
“they’re on the chair , ” my father said .
it’s just to let the air in .
he took my harpoon too and all the rope , he thought , and now my fish bleeds again and
his town had heard too many atrocity stories to be thrilled by actualities .
” “half-pound one ounce .
that’s the way you work it .
" he had bad experiences when a boy , " the smallest one said .
' ' comic books , ' the colonel said .
' ' right , ' the colonel said .
' ' i get rough when you get rough , ' she said .
for another , some one else might run onto him .
people .
there were good ones that i don ' t remember .
we were moving and they were running again now .
i tried to get him to hang him in a tree and leave him until we could send out a
' why haven ' t i heard anything about the war to-night ?
the owner .
" " have a cigar ?
” “he certainly is a great drinker .
' ' you ' ll have to read him .
cold eyes .
of wives that we all had taken with our eyes , he led us off and to the right along
there we were , the three of us , wanting to congratulate , waiting to be good sports about this
after we finished eating we went out on the porch .
the ball of smoke hung in the sky like a shrapnel burst , and as i watched , another rocket
' ' i ' m not going to lie about anything .
' ' drank some beer though , didn ' t you ?
the waiter told me that my friends had been there and gone .
" betty co-ed " was a good tune too , but the parody of the words which came unavoidably into
they never really became as tame as the other barnyard fowl the spanish settlers brought with them and some escaped
we both drank .
opinion , should be without a length of mosquito netting suitable for the improvisation of one of these grasshopper seines
suddenly she shivered .
a rummy fake santa claus .
one of them was saying , “it is ten days since i have been here waiting to see him and
but he had to go .
we will not mention general walter bedell smith any further .
george and nick were happy .
like to go ?
” “we will go now .
don ' t be cross , darling .
bill came over from the piano and we drank the hot punch and listened to the wind .
boyle shot one of the seat of the wagon and one out of the wagon box .
and pulled the tent up off the ground with the other end of the rope and tied it to the
it felt as though you could never sink .
the real ones .
to me , sir , ' jackson said .
“hello , ” said jack .
and measured the spread with his arms and kept crooning , ' oo-oo-eee-eee ' , making small high noises of
" ils sont des sauvages , " fontan explained .
shoulders into it and the skirts well down , he stepped out into the wind .
" " just what happens ?
for in madrid and he was already making excuses not to go to it .
” “what did the doctor say about you , john ?
“that your great desire isn’t really—” pinin looked at the floor .
” “what’s it all about ?
we turned the car out through the thick , short grass and on to the dried lake floor and everywhere
” “oh yes i did .
he did not even think about it .
“you know they’re absolutely no damned good , ” nick said .
where they were so unsophisticated that it was really a shame to topple them over .
' ' they are a damn sight more important when you put them on paper .
" " you see ?
” “i knew you did .
it was a pleasant bar .
” “i will go to the states .
later in the day we shoot them once .
“god it would be complicated .
if he was in it he’d be killed .
and if you love sheets .
madame fontan came out and put down the bottles on the table .
they ' ve got a buoy on her now .
was sleeping .
” “casa del campo , ” he said , pronouncing it in a sing-song mocking way we had heard a
still there wasn’t anything you could do , not a thing .
across the marshes , brown as those at the mouths of the mississippi around pilot town are in winter ,
” “glad to meet you , ” i said .
in the sunset with all the rocks and dirt giving back the heat of the day .
' your hand .
he made a quick drop , slanting down on his back-swept wings , and then circled again .
' ' it looks very bad , ' pop agreed .
it was evening and the sun was down beyond the hills on the other side of the lake .
that’s enough .
she slept in a cabin out behind the house and had come into the kitchen a half an hour before
walcott was after him , going forward all the time with his chin on his chest .
damn good .
m ' cola stopped dead , leaned over to look at the damp sand , then whispered , ' man
“maybe not to you , ” said doctor wilcox .
his money was all right and now he wanted to finish it off right to please himself .
i did not realize what this meant but garrick threw his arms wide , looked up to the sky and
“that’s what i want to be .
cows , he was no more like a real bull than a spike elk is like a big , old
" i went on looking for the tackle and putting it all together in the tackle-bag .
he was quite a bit smaller .
surely you will be sleeping .
like it ?
no one makes things complicated by becoming your friend for any obscure reason .
i did not realize the extent to which it had set him off until one day he came into my
" ils veulent shooter les uns les autres .
” “it don’t make no difference where it was , ” joe said without turning his head .
” “make me happy , ” said frankie .
cover their withdrawal .
vigía in spanish means a lookout or a prospect .
your mediums smacked our house in treviso .
" what do you want to eat , al ?
“i’m going right down to the chapel to pray .
liberté , venalité , et stupidité_ .
i must hold him all i can and give him line when he must have it .
was raised .
i find it so extraordinarily clean .
i was blind myself .
' mummy says she can ' t live here too long at any time because there are no trees ,
he always bets when he is angered , and so he usually bets foolishly .
“oh darling .
squirrel that was in the top branches where they could not see him .
" then he felt the gentle touch on the line and he was happy .
' _gran maestro_ , some more of that roederer , please , and please place a chair in such a
” “i’m sick of hearing you talk .
” “nobody sent that first son of a bitch .
there was a clock on the wall , a zinc bar at the far end of the room , and
or , if i did wrong , i am sorry .
on the snow .
more difficult to break from the hook .
nick poked a pole he had cut up under the back peak of the canvas and then made it a
i hunted for them and found them and carried them down-stairs .
" andré had brought the twenty-two-calibre rifle out from the cupboard and was holding it in his hands under the
" " so do i .
” “all right , as soon as the bait comes .
i must bathe before dinner .
it bagged me the same way .
he had not expected this .
” “just those i said .
hill on the right to sit there with our backs against the hilltop and glass the country .
you’ll never regret it .
let ' s drive about a little .
michel .
go on up and see him .
“i wouldn’t do a thing like that to you , harry , ” he said .
the town ain’t so much , but there’s a lake and a swell forest that we used to go off
very well .
he took a deep breath , took hold of his ankles with his hands , his knees under his chin
not a great enough beauty any more at home to be able to leave him and better herself and she
, the wanderobo-masai as strong as ever beside me , kamau watching the grooves of the tyre tracks in the
he moved toward his tent carrying himself with comic stiffness , walking in the dark as carefully as though he
" nick went out .
and managers .
, sweating , rushing , up the ridge through the trees and over rocks .
“then i’ll fix you up again .
your father does not want to hamper your freedom .
' below , in the high grass , droop was holding up a grass blade towards us .
” “he is a good guy , ” i said .
want me to knock you down a few times ?
obvious britishers at the next table .
tall blond youth , who danced big-hippily , carrying his head on one side , his eyes lifted as he
a drink .
" he asks .
with what must have been the last shot in it because i saw him throw it down , and old
you’ll like that .
' you have to stand for this , look !
” he talked in the same flat voice .
he got up into the front seat , making two who rode there beside the driver , and the four
he hadn’t looked away from her since she started to speak .
him with that lousy four-seventy .
there isn ' t room .
" we drove down the road in the motor-car and turned up a side road about a mile away .
they realize , of course , that it is a difficult voyage .
" " you don ' t need it .
macomber stood there feeling sick at his stomach , his hands that held the springfield still cocked , shaking ,
all you saw was the heads and shoulders going up and down , up and down .
i won’t if you’re sleepy .
let’s see .
' ' i don ' t care who lives in it .
the other to the shooter ' s right .
" let ' s try and sleep a while .
“i’m going to make some coffee , ” he told the nigger .
” “let’s chuck it , ” said wilson .
real soldiers never tell anyone what their own dead looked like , he told the portrait .
unless they were of your party , they spoiled it .
gotten him his job as an apprentice waiter .
he straightened his coat with his gloved hands .
" " we ' re going in , anyway , " i said .
she walked over to the edge of the dock and looked down to the water .
” “it’s a symbol , ” bill said .
fish ' s head which would not tear .
one , lying down , was certainly much the biggest and the horns , as i caught them in silhouette
we went out .
this was an old joke we had about an algerian who was about to be guillotined on the pavement outside
i’ve got to work today .
an old bull would be grey but a good herd bull might be as black as a cow .
i said , don’t be a damn fool luis .
“you can see the place .
" i ' ll just be gone a few minutes .
the menu .
they should see each other only after their work is done , and not too often then .
came to light after he came to live at the finca vigía .
these were higher and thicker even than the slough the buff had come out of in the morning and there
" it never does a man any good .
“i’ll wake you up .
' ' don ' t talk about such things , ' the boatman said .
roger saw he had a thin , mean cracker mouth and he wore steel-rimmed glasses .
" the first or the second time ?
she was very frightened and didn’t know how he was going to go about things but she snuggled close to
” “brother , ” i told him , and i was sorry for him , “you’re in plenty of trouble
to be comfortable ?
” “i can walk on the side , too .
" " where ' s that beer ?
“i was going great .
there was one panel of rabbits , dead , one of pheasants , also dead , and one panel of
, nor fights , nor contests of strength , nor of his wife .
it was p .
but i have chewed it all well and i am not nauseated .
” “did you see anything else ?
' ' did you not , ' said pop .
ettore came over , unable to avoid conspiracy and , having gathered his intelligence rapidly and as a venetian should
“it’s horrible , ” the girl said .
“well , so long .
during the day he had taken the sack that covered the bait box and spread it in the sun to
maybe .
about all things that he was not a part of .
head , blasted him over .
“you may have killed him , ” wilson went on .
i felt all trembly and funny inside , and then we were all jammed in with the people going downstairs
" " that ' s enough , " i said .
three ; i hide my head in the sand like an ostrich , confident in the greatness of france as
the train went by and guy started the engine .
in a war everybody of all ranks including generals cries at some time or another .
i ' ll come up and see you .
the big camera was the most expensive thing we had and if it was smashed we were through .
i saw pop coming out of his tent with a pipe in his mouth .
exactly right .
' m ' cola and i know , ' i said .
" et le lendemain il ne reste rien .
she lost a fine man and nothing really interests her now except efficiency .
now maybe you’re lucky with women .
" " he looks easy to hit , " i said .
“that’s one of those things you never know at the time .
" i ' m being towed by a fish and i ' m the towing bitt .
c’est le truck de charley .
' what about his lorry ?
" that ' s better .
right the swamp .
" after a while he said to me , " you don ' t have to stay in here with
oh he’s fine .
masai , ' he said , very proudly , claiming kin .
he had whored the whole time and then , when that was over , and he had failed to kill
it was the same feeling about any action .
" i ' m all through .
_num_ st soldier—ain’t i seen ’em ?
i did this and returned over the bridge .
first the chicken ; then the egg .
ducks etching themselves against the sky over the water , then blurring , then etching again and he knew no
the sun wasn’t up yet and they both felt hollow and empty in the early morning after the night of
have them sent to the game department .
" there ought to be a system for wetting these things , " he said .
“you are crazy .
' ' no , ' the colonel agreed .
there were bags of charcoal piled beside the road , and through the trees we saw charcoal-burners ' huts .
the children said , " mother , can we go out in the afternoon to see the shooting ?
his return from china .
he cannot marry , ” he said angrily .
" " they won ' t , " i said , " and schmidt won ' t be president either
knowing that only the car was different , that only who was with him was different , roger felt the
" trust me .
his face looked bad , the eyes open .
he hung unsteadily in the current , then settled to the bottom beside a stone .
" " why me ?
sometimes he would be so tired that he could not remember the prayer and then he would say them fast
he hangs around the water front and does odd jobs and is pretty deaf and drinks too much every night
with you .
" " i didn ' t feel badly at all .
” “i’m jolly .
bill and the ghee had come out of the water farther down the shore , walked down the beach up
' the barone alvarito looked away and spread his hands towards the fire .
" i wouldn ' t joke him .
' what happens to those men ?
david watched their backs and their asses go in and out of sight .
“the memsahib can stay here in the car .
” nick lay with his head on the pack and his sister lay by him with her head on his
" why aren ' t you tight ?
when i started to pull up i felt that i had one and brought him , fighting and bending the
” “have a bottle of beer , ” i told him .
the last bottle he had ordered .
” “we’ll come before we go .
they last the best in the water and fish prefer them .
that was another bright idea .
he shut his eyes again and went to sleep .
i looked strange to myself in the glass , and went down-stairs to the dining-room .
let the memsahib stay behind me .
was leaning my neck back to get the crick out of it .
' ' come on , ' i said .
but we had to go to the hotel to get our bags packed and pay the bill .
down alongside the cot .
' hapana !
didn’t you just hear edwin henry say so ?
it was three days ago that harvey had won two hundred francs from me shaking poker dice in the new
around and seeing him with you .
" show irony and pity .
he put his two hands together and felt the palms .
shut at the base .
and he’d make some joke at them in french and they’d pat me on the head and go on .
" " no gambler has luck with women .
they were waiting for him to bark again because when he barked he would jerk his tail and nick would
” “but he kept taking out line .
in france we’d go .
they are too valuable .
both with civilian caps , flat , high-cheekboned faces , wooden-holstered mauser pistols strapped to their legs , came out
the bull gathered himself , then his head went forward and he went over slowly , then all over ,
, comrade , ” al told him .
” “have we got a name for this camp ?
i was eating a piece of hot broiled liver i had lifted from one of the sticks of the wanderobo-masai
but his wife said , “who is that letter from , dear ?
” zurito said nothing .
“you’d think they’d like to say ‘grüss gott .
" " he doesn ' t want to go out .
“i’ll tell you .
so what happened to him ?
my theory and you ' ll put me straight anyway .
she was very neat and efficient and seemed to enjoy it .
' i mean it truly .
this bull was the policeman or bodyguard for the bigger one .
the sweater covered a leather shoulder holster , the leather ringed and saltwhitened with perspiration , that he wore with
thermos jug , the enameled cups , the brown paper bag full of white rock bottles , and the two
don’t shoot unless it’s close enough so you can make sure .
“it’s not a trick .
' the maitre d ' hotel asked .
but the hell with the pills .
eight pesetas for the two .
he was teaching everybody then ; but no one else learned .
makes me nervous .
" we better go .
you ain ' t got an idea what it ' s like when you can ' t sleep .
[the third roman soldier tastes the cup that the wine-seller has mixed for him .
the austrian attacks were ill co-ordinated , but they were constant and exasperated and you first had the heavy bombardment
' ' he will be , ' the girl told him .
i would not even write a letter .
“it’s such a fine old hotel , ” said the american lady .
" i filled the big earthenware jug with water in the kitchen , and brett put the roses in it
are living with , knowing , learning about , and loving , has moved , as it moves , since
the other had a chauffeur’s white duster on .
finally i asked him .
” “she was terrible , ” bill said .
she put a hand on his thigh and with the other she stroked the back of his neck .
" he put his hand on my shoulder again embarrassedly .
“i’m sorry i fouled your boy .
did he see you ?
get any hay , and that old bastard from the forks who had beaten the boy when he had worked
the whole battery was drunk going along the road in the dark .
a fork .
in the rising mist .
that it was well into the second year of the war , that he was in a city under siege
” “and you , comrade ?
" don ' t go , " mike said .
” “i wouldn’t know , ” said captain willie .
" he nearly killed the poor , bloody bull-fighter .
and always the pain that any movement produced grew stronger and stronger , until finally his yellow face was parchment
” “the hell with him .
, too .
her and she smiled at me but that was all that ever came of it because i looked for her
but you can sheathe your scythe , old brother death , if you have got a sheath for it .
the skull was quite clean but the hollow horns had some damp residue in them , smelled unbearably foul and
" " how should i meet cohn ?
" " which do you like best ?
it’s all right to tell who shot you .
” “she hasn’t seen the boy and she doesn’t know anything about him .
became middle-aged , and wilson noted his crew-cropped hair , fine eyes only faintly shifty , good nose , thin
" nick said .
cipriani .
that’s when it gets ’em .
" i wouldn ' t like it .
it has more force in the evening too .
” “i brought the whiskey , ” she said hopefully .
had evidently caught our scent and gone back into the hills .
back of them were their people , and behind the banderilleros , back in the passageway and in the open
” “don’t try to be funny .
" " where ?
“jimmy , there’s nothing to the whole business .
the train stayed twenty-five minutes in the station at marseilles and the american lady bought a copy of _the daily
i’ve really got this thing beat now .
yes , he said and how much you lost them at the chateau that time at ten gs a head
” “maybe you will in twenty years , ” his father said .
and arrows .
" " might .
he should have hit somebody the first time he was insulted , and then gone away .
" " i know how to care for them .
the wood box was half full and all the pans were hanging against the wall .
” “i think i can last , ” jack says .
this makes me intensely desirable to the main whore and to all of her circle .
it rained drizzlingly and i undressed , got into mosquito boots and heavy pyjamas and sat on the cot ,
' i mean in a year a man could .
" " that ' s quite a kid , " bill said .
they went over and around piles of brush and it was hot in the slashing , and the pollen from
that must have been our bull with him .
i’d like to go to san dona to see the bridge again .
please kiss me and put all love into it .
they must have thought there was no one in the house .
” no , he said .
but i’d like to kill those two sons of bitches .
” “where did you watch when he hit him ?
chapter vi nick sat against the wall of the church where they had dragged him to be clear of machine-gun
" i think you ' ll find that ' s very good wine , " he said .
, when someone inside threw a stick grenade that exploded just beyond the edge of the road .
' the colonel started to speak but he stopped while it hit him the third time and gripped bun so
in light patches on the grass .
her now parted hair forward so that it came below the line of her cheek and , slanting back ,
" manuel suggested .
“you ain’t hardly human .
the drugstore and the breeze off the gulf .
unbelievable smash of the .
” “who do you think you are ?
we should not make more love , i know .
” robert wilson came up then carrying his short , ugly , shockingly big-bored .
you had them killed .
really i mean it .
jack was up in his room .
crowd , first at one side of the ring , then at the other , and then sat down .
” “wasn’t it that way with you when you started ?
for the sergeant .
that was the first time i ever saw a german dog eating a roasted german kraut .
now you ' re not talking rot .
“we count on you , ” fontan said .
' ' that ' s the way things go , ' the colonel said .
you can hold a place and i’ll go get a bath and join you at the gran via .
everybody was too drunk to pull him off me .
he felt the rubbery solidity as the club came down .
“rye , ” the man said .
m ' uzuri sana , ' i agreed .
” “maybe we’d better not even stop for dinner , ” he said .
" " what ' s yours ?
' the hell with you , portrait , ' he said .
now i tell you it would take a hell of a mean man to butcher a bunch of chinks like
" " it was swell .
" " i ' ll do it .
’ “‘where is the place this paco was wounded ?
' they were going with the wind now and they were both tired .
i took a fifty-franc note from my pocket , put it in the envelope , sealed it , and handed
" pedro romero was sitting beside brett and listening to her .
" people take a boy like that .
he listened to her breathing and to the quiet of the night and then he was asleep again .
you ' ve got four on your licence .
" oh , my god , you ought to have been there all right .
too damn close , manuel thought .
" " there you go .
we were going back to the hotel .
but all day and all night the fiesta kept on .
smith for the eggs and flour and afraid if she bought them mrs .
“you know it is a beastly language , ” he said .
" something hurt him then , " he said aloud and pulled back on the line to see if he
look , this cabrón who shoots me just now .
at his father sitting on the screen porch reading the paper , and thought , " i can blow him
” “we only had a half a day because i was a bad girl and slept so late .
they stood together , looking out across the country , down over the orchard , beyond the road , across
" " the chica will ask her .
' what do you think went wrong to-night ?
“take the car out ?
” that evening as david had sat by the fire he had looked at juma with his stitched-up face and
but did you ever read them ?
his wings .
” “that’s where we always stayed .
" " forgive you , hell .
" his own father shot and killed him .
“he’s deaf , ” i said .
the memsahib and i will break camp in the morning , move the outfit and go on to where dan
” “there’s a good chance of it .
the women writers become joan of arc without the fighting .
if i could have used a bat with two hands i could have killed the first one surely .
' ' i think it is much worse than that .
that wool jersey .
“you must write a story about it , ” the manager said .
above us , on the right , were the hills , wooded in patches of orchard bush .
how many did you ever kill , old fish ?
francis macomber was very tall , very well built if you did not mind that length of bone , dark
from the stream .
the willow brush .
' he had that damned springfield cocked , ' i said to pop .
that isn ' t polite .
" where will we have lunch ?
“why didn’t you wake me , darling ?
so was michael .
krebs put his arm on her shoulder .
fished if he was not trying to use the bird .
, or just abandoned , which you are wheeled in and out of .
knee .
they certainly were our friends though .
people beat him who had never had a chance with him .
romero took the ear from his brother and held it up toward the president .
than m ' cola or i .
after lunch i went up to my room , read a while , and went to sleep .
” “i don’t know , ” manuel said .
they were replaced by cast-iron tables and severe folding chairs .
' but it should be taken to the room .
" " you ' re a splendid one to talk about manners , " brett said .
” “you feel all right ?
that was all a lie .
the bridges were all the same .
or out into the country .
tell you anything i could remember .
“i’ll put you in a nocturnal if you want , ” retana offered .
he had gone down so suddenly and the bullet had made such a crack as it landed that i was
then he had planned to stay in charlevoix all winter so he could be near marge .
and the bull , the great , black bull , with a horse on his back , hooves dangling ,
we worked the car through the herd , finally , and coming out wound our way through pleasant looking bush
didn ' t we want guineas ?
" " they ' re awful , " bill said .
" " how is he ?
“well , horace , ” doc fischer said as i came in the receiving room which smelt of cigarettes ,
cohn was crying , and brett had told him off , and he wanted to shake hands .
he had a couple of his health-farm patients with the gloves on .
' instead , now we ' ve got him wounded .
” “i think it is .
" " at the crillon .
" " the count ?
” “you don’t have to .
i won ' t have it .
“you hear him , horace ?
in california he fell among literary people and , as he still had a little of the fifty thousand left
, and put it over his shoulder in the way tramps carried their property in a handkerchief on the end
, you decide you better kill them and pick up .
a girl and a soldier went by in the street .
he lay there for a long time .
” “a whore is also a woman , but i am not a whore .
" do what ?
in his coffee .
hearing them come by their talk , stepped out with a hand in each low pocket of his raincoat and
" tell me about the baseball , " the boy asked him .
no i can’t leave this cage until my husband comes , she said .
“he’s drunk every night .
” asked one of the guards .
how are you , my lovely ?
as the american girl was exceedingly hardworking and had been trying , perhaps not too successfully , to keep her
intelligence .
" " do .
robert cohn stood in the shade of the arcade waiting for us start .
“anyway , he couldn’t bring her over to be buried until the snow was gone .
he could not say anything to that .
' ' please don ' t be rough .
” he hooked each of the skinned perch through the tail .
, a herd of sable standing in the timber looking at us .
' it is finished , ' he said .
" he cut off the end of his cigar with a gold cutter he wore on one end of his
so he said , “daughter , for now , let’s just try to be good to each other and love
that school has gotten away from me , he thought .
from the heart .
it is just my eyes and the fact that it is a long time since i have been sitting still
the clicking on of the searchlight caught him so that he was full in the beam , looking toward it
wonder who those buzzards was ?
in the crowd you saw only the heads and shoulders of the dancers going up and down .
the change .
" " listen-- " says the referee , and he gives them the same old line .
there was no one in sight .
afterward we went to the café and watched the fiesta come to the boiling-point .
all the bullfighters except the one who was ill had made their evening appearance at the café fornos , where
" you got everything now ?
” “and are the most beautiful girl i’ve ever seen and wonderful and strange as hell in bed and always
“she’s crazy .
this was not outrightly funny to him .
" why don ' t you cut off your coleta , manolo ?
she ' s got too much of everything except engine .
” “this place is pretty good , ” i said .
so we figured we ' d come to our limit and went up to the top and came back .
more .
a great part of it was close-packed and crowded into several side streets and it was so concentrated that it
he had probably started to talk aloud , when alone , when the boy had left .
awfully decent of you .
the roman was going , as near as i could make out , to spy on one of the herds
" they were both silent .
the handsome job the undertaker had done on his father’s face had not blurred in his mind and all the
" yes , " he said seriously .
i looked and saw her coming through the crowd in the square , walking , her head up , as
it is very difficult .
bludenz , that time to buy presents , and the cherry-pit taste of good kirsch , the fast-slipping rush of
remaining , still changing as the sun moved .
in it were the summer heat , the mosquitoes , the feel of the forest in the different seasons ,
the men had taken hunting with them .
many others too , he thought .
please get this policeman out of here because i am very tired .
“and you don’t know where you are .
was afraid of so many things .
' jackson , ' he said , ' are you happy ?
" it ' s full of them .
" you have it your own way .
they’re a hell of a looking thing , aren’t they ?
" " i don ' t care who they are , " i said .
maybe they will be back with another truck today .
" how would you like to see me bring one in that dressed out over a thousand pounds ?
” “it’s a very fine story .
he came back and motioned me to stop .
the machine can ' t reproduce , nor does it fertilize the soil , and it eats what he cannot
” “it’s all the same .
knew he could put no more strain on it .
“no , i understand few words but i speak greek , english , arabic .
course of the irati river .
when you were still a toto he says .
it could fall of its own weight .
” “i’d like to get my savior packed full of nuggets worth sixteen dollars an ounce .
, absolutely trusting adoration .
" " to sleep .
” “you can’t have an idea what it’s like .
there were three of them in the row behind us .
" " i wouldn ' t be if i were you .
i knew that was why luis delgado had been such a fool as to go back there .
' they ' ll get out of his way .
" drink that , " said bill .
they said good-bye and all felt bad .
do .
” “it must have made him feel good to bust you , ” the man said seriously .
that was one of the swell things you could count on .
many must have it .
do you know what it is ?
eat it all up .
“is a plenty trouble always come , even if you do best to avoid .
the bull could not make up his mind to charge .
it was not so much that he lied as that there was no truth to tell .
fat in the skillet .
you need an awful lot of past performances .
as it turned out , we started soon after three to be on the hill by four .
frazer said , “the hands are still good .
the publishers had praised his novel pretty highly and it rather went to his head .
“that isn’t it , ” mr .
go out of me if it were dark .
' things like that don ' t happen .
but i’ll come back .
find the bull ' s tracks .
” “were you out on the coast with him ?
" where do you get all that tape ?
they met and the referee put his arm on each of their shoulders .
he just settled back in the chair and stretched his legs out .
oh , the lousy , dirty bastards !
“tell him how wrong he is , ” tom turned to me .
wake up ?
“what is mashing ?
' ' i think it goes quite well .
finally the of icer told the soldiers it was no good trying to make him stand up .
you were looking at me .
only three months later he was badly wounded in both legs and hospitalized in the american red cross hospital in
“how’s billy ?
' they were moving up the grand canal now and it was easy to see where your friends lived .
but if you can write that well you don’t need anyone to help you .
but it will loosen up .
' ' i never wanted to know , ' the surgeon said .
” “what does he know about russia ?
of the two priests , one was sitting in his underwear reading his breviary and the other was wearing a
“you do .
“ici , c’est une maladie , les books .
damned touching scene .
” his father and juma spoke together and juma had looked at david and laughed .
' portrait , keep your god-damn chin up so you can break my heart easier .
” “the snow .
train came in and stopped , and everybody started coming out through the gates .
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--they were a pretty yellow crowd .
if you’re close enough to cut them they’re bound to cut you .
in new york , chicago , key west or marseilles .
fly , and he did not see wilson now and , aiming carefully , shot again with the buffalo’s huge
” “aren’t we fast ?
' daughter , ' he said , and he was talking to her and not to a picture now .
some of the women stared at the people going by with lorgnons .
” “it’s the sister of vicente irtube , ” said the lieutenant .
it ' s easy if you ' re bad .
' sleep well , my dearest lovely , and i will just tell it for nothing .
loose tunic he wore with the four big cartridges held in loops where the left breast pocket should have been
hendaye had a splendid beach , but he was anxious to start on the fishing-trip .
“is he in ?
he was nineteen years old , he said .
the major lay with his head on the rucksack that he had stuffed with spare clothing to make a pillow
he had seen many handsome young couples break up and new couples form that were never so handsome long .
" " bartenders have always been fine .
man’s wrist and the sergeant’s wrist hit the little man in the face .
' ' please stop talking about it .
" " have you got an indian girl , nickie ?
” “i’ll pick out you .
' how is emily and are the children ?
, and a stream and ripe fields of grain , and the road went on , very white and straight
let’s try .
on this kind it’s ninety-eight .
must have been some slip-up , he thought .
she pulled hard on the oars and the boat went way up the beach .
people were .
' ' we ' ll keep up above where we can see if he makes a break , ' pop
awful close that time .
, since he knew no one should eat much while shooting .
the peasant in the high boots took the spade from the sexton and went on filling in the grave--spreading the
" what do you know about steve ?
you still wish it ?
i’ll let it come as a surprise .
the singing had died down momentarily , or there was a break in it as there is sometimes in a
camp , then i looked ahead at the dried-up , scrubby plain .
we don ' t need you now .
as crazy as they say .
louis , kansas city , denver , los angeles , salt lake city .
the shivering increased as he pulled in and he could see the blue back of the fish in the water
they used to catch everyone off the trains during the worst of the depression .
then everybody commenced to throw chairs .
behind her they were shouting .
, that did not know a god-damned thing , and the artillery had fired into the troops and the british
he was coming back in three weeks and we would leave for spain to get in some fishing and go
" he seems to be going anyway , " guy said .
but my legs were bad now and it was not worth the time you spent hunting good snow any more
” “well , ” says jack , “i got the dough for them all right .
he said he would and i went on and into the tent where a lantern was burning , took off
they used to go on long walks together .
then where did he go each night and what was the peril , and why would he wake , soaking
" " you didn ' t want to mix in it ?
i shared a taxi back from the quai d ' orsay with woolsey and krum .
how he’d tried to steal some feed that didn’t belong to him , and when the sherif put the handcuf
" has brett any money ?
his wife had been a great beauty and she was still a great beauty in africa , but she was
" " i won ' t have you circulating around to no purpose , " captain paravicini said .
he had such beautiful hands and such a fine face and he never complains .
” “mejor si me falta eso que el otro , ” said the older waiter (meaning it is better to
” “i’m not white man , ” she said .
oh , lord , may he hit safely !
he took a short cut and was at the fish market .
” “he’s courteous , ” said the chef .
" " how about vienna ?
i wouldn ' t ask you like this if i weren ' t .
she did not .
" it ' s funny how fast you can think when it means that much money , " jack says
" " i know , " said manuel .
' we went over .
we’ve got a lot of things , though .
the old man paid no attention to them and did not pay any attention to anything except steering .
he looked out across the swamp and up in the sky , above where the arm of the lake would
whatever distance you see him , or like a bull elk who cannot see you at two hundred yards unless
“that way it lasts longer .
" you were going great .
“but if that’s the way you feel about it why not split the difference ?
he dipped some more water onto them from the pail by the table .
it is very possible that i die .
' ' i love you very truly , ' the colonel said .
a hot armenian slut , that swung her belly against him so it almost scalded .
he would answer in what he thought was french .
" i ' ll bet you fifty pesetas they ' re here to-night , " bill said .
to frighten a fish by walking on the bank .
and you might have been stripped if you lost .
" " it ' s bad .
, and then we washed and cleaned up and went down-stairs in the dining-room for lunch .
there seemed to be enough sand in the clay to keep the car from slipping .
there were a dozen different dishes of hors d ' oeuvres .
aboard of her when i found her .
” “what time ?
and i know it ' s perfectly simple .
but i ' ve got my wolf back , " he touched the sheet with his tongue .
" he could send ten words for the same price .
“you’ll have to watch yourself , ” bill said .
maybe it would and maybe i would have got well .
stay around .
” “will you want to eat soon ?
me to take off the tunic ?
when he came back from the spring his sister was in the bed asleep , her head on the pillow
” “i want to go home and into bed .
come on back and we’ll get a little something .
” “that’s our bank .
john came to the door of the dressing-room and poked his head in .
i saw him in the moonlight and he was alone but i had kibo .
“not much , ” i said .
as we came out the door i saw cohn walk out from under the arcade .
i sat down and waited for him to stop and when he did , obviously anchored , i sat there
i thought we would have to get permission to drive through the maize , provided we could make it across
of course .
' ' mustn ' t do anything silly , though .
" manuel said .
i don’t think that goddam evans kid knows about this place .
" nick could not see the flag or the flag pole .
“there isn’t any idea .
" it might make such a mess .
and the day before i turned down three thousand dollars to land three aliens on the keys .
" but it is a heinous crime .
the car was outside .
” “were you expecting them ?
" " oh , nothing , " she said , " except that he wants to leave me .
when it was cooked nick regreased the skillet .
” “good , ” claude said .
the swamp was mossy and not muddy there .
then we were going through the woods , following our trail and trying to make time to get out before
" yes , " manuel said .
i went to the ritz and waited for her , and she never came , and of course i didn
” “i wish you were sober , ” the other flyer said .
i can tell one writer from another and i tell you that a mediocre writer has a long span of
you come out in a boat and load from the boat .
“how did you feel ?
' he whispered .
" fine .
and you go right into happiness as though it were a country you were the biggest landowner in .
“kiss me again like that , ” she said .
” “jees i wish you weren’t drunk , ” said one of the flyers .
and he did that just to please me .
didn ' t they know enough to keep back ?
" the drummer shouted and grinned at brett .
short and grew beautifully away from her forehead .
but tell me .
i was giving him four dollars a day .
' wapi ?
it ' s terrible .
' go on , ' she said .
” “i can’t stop it happening , ” the boy said .
they did not know any of the people they passed on the stairs on their way to and from their
" they ought to put some gravel on that stretch , " joe garner said .
“everybody’s got to go .
don ' t be obstinate , darling .
” “i am very happy you have come .
" i will have it put on the bill .
bill said something to cohn about what to do and how to look so he would not mind the horses
” “he lives on the other side of the paznaun , ” said the sexton .
" why i felt that impulse to devil him i do not know .
she kissed the count and put her hand on his shoulder to keep him from standing up .
ask the boys about it .
hell , i ' ve shot well the whole time .
for a minute i began to doubt whether there ever was a bull .
and the other way the narrow crowded world of the rue mouf etard .
the nigger with the tommy gun got his face almost into the street and gave the back of the wagon
their horns all looked big to me .
" " belasco .
" the grossness of the words was distasteful to fontan .
of course , i told her , and , sniffing , she left my chest to find the bottle and
gee , i was fond of him .
what we call grasshoppers that is ; and what are , really , locusts .
" " do you know what he is doing now ?
" " it wouldn ' t be any good .
" i never used to realize it , i guess .
the next morning they were following the spoor of the elephant on an old elephant trail that was a hard-packed
" now , " the count brought up a bottle .
" " tell me about how you got married .
yet the two top floors had four rooms on the front of the house which were intact and there was
it was going well .
to the road , and along the road between the houses of the town , their windows lighted , to
“you hear those damn silk-worms ?
it was cold in the inn and the wind was starting to blow outside .
prepared to stay where we were through the rains we must be out as far as handeni before they came
he charged straight for the steers and two men ran out from behind the planks and shouted , to turn
i went to sleep reading , the wind coming in cool and fresh under the heated canvas .
it had a black bone handle .
grand canal .
” they ate at the green lantern and the widow woman squirted flit under the table and brought them fresh
in the car macomber’s wife sat very white-faced .
' you have the shillings , ' i said .
” “you certainly do look at it .
he had disappeared .
“but tell him that i feel very sick and would prefer not to talk so much .
there aren’t any more men like steve ketchel .
i could see the woman floated in the water through the glass .
so when the light failed we carried the big camera down the stairs , took off the tripod , made
but once the deadly following started he was useless to them and a danger to their success just as kibo
but then i thought there’s no sense spoiling it by doing something you’d be sorry for afterwards .
the old man was roasting meat on a stick .
” “i would advise you to , ” said the gentleman .
what hasn’t left you ?
i opened mine and there were a dozen flies in it .
" she stopped .
i told him what i thought of him right there on the gran via , in front of three friends
then with his arm under the first man’s shoulder he started to crawl , dragging him toward the trench .
when bill came up .
" up back of the camp .
" " was anybody killed in the ring ?
moisture beaded on the bottles as i walked back to the trees .
watch .
on the other hand it is a form of concentration i suppose .
“you’d better put on your mosquito boots , ” he told her .
after looking at him the second time the doctor believed the stretcher-bearers when they said the soldier was still alive
i have coveted this for a long time , but i wanted you to give it to me .
i always thought i ' d have them and then like them .
” “i’ll point out things .
' exactly , ' she said .
i could see everything sharp and clear .
” he asked again .
' ' would it make you happier to be a three-star general ?
" " do anything else ?
on the quai at smyrna the strange thing was , he said , how they screamed every night at midnight
” “we are robbing you .
” “i think they’re jealous of both of them .
then karl came out and i said , ' hi , karl ' .
' ' i wouldn ' t say cheyenne was a tough town , sir .
' why aren ' t you president ?
out the easy part of the other .
“so at one o’clock this morning , ” doc fischer said , “we receive the youth self-mutilated with a razor
his red cheeks were shiny .
don ' t get cock-eyed .
they were a long way away .
he felt it go in and knowing it was sharp he drove it in again .
” we went inside , crossed the lobby , passing the night watchman at the concierge’s desk and the night
" hello , jake , " mike said .
' it ' s on the side he ' s lying on , ' i said .
feels good .
there were always trout in a place like that .
" " you ain ' t got any idea .
” “you’re sure you’re not hungry ?
' just another one of those .
in a little while i won ' t be able to remember him at all .
“i’ll mail it for you .
” “do you have any fun ?
why can ' t a good painter see this country ?
" billy was very depressed .
" " hombre , there are bodegas open all night long .
her stable of horses , to books , and to bottles .
” “you said it , kid , ” agreed the short waiter .
should we talk about something else ?
we can start on that and save the other for sometime special .
remember her mother and that guy she married .
one of three men who had been sitting on the beds came up and asked us if we spoke french
it went out of sight .
, a farewell to arms .
into the ring .
he had the black ass bad too .
he must have fallen off when we left the first bull .
" " that , too , has got a place in my values .
but in battle there is much thirst even when there is no fear .
he was sure they would not fight at either of these two places but would race for where they were
i motioned to kamau to stop , and putting on the brakes we skidded just short of them .
when i get like this i don ' t care whether i eat or not .
we’ve only got four minutes more .
how pleasant he was and how he made it seem a great privilege to pay .
_gran maestro_ and wave to any other members of the order and ten to one , the way i feel
' ' where should we meet ?
“you really want to ?
that now he looked a monument to his dead self ; complete with protruding eyes and his delicate , far-extended
' no , ' he said and shook his head .
we were frightfully put out when we heard the flank had gone , and we had to fall back .
it’s no good that way .
" i was sure he didn ' t , so it was all right .
nor sell things .
he had been thoroughly practical .
there you fight your way into a city that you love and are very careful about breaking anything and then
they were tired of dijon and anyway would now be able to say that after leaving harvard or columbia or
her breasts .
“that’d be all right with me , ” nick said .
frazer had been through this all before .
" " i had a swell time , dad .
suppose you mind yours then .
“i go on her wherever she goes .
_hebrew wine-seller_--i got it right here .
“i had imagined it was a lugger .
“and here is a little champagne wine .
for him to start down the road .
manuel let the bull drive into the fallen horse ; he was in no hurry , the picador was safe
shoot him again , ” trudy said .
” “i can’t stand to think about him waiting in the room and knowing he’s going to get it .
he called the resorters “change-of-lifers” and he made fun of them to mrs .
then he opened and closed them on it lightly to loosen them .
you can ' t have an idea what it ' s like .
he came from a village in a part of extramadura where conditions were incredibly primitive , food scarce , and
it’s too rough at sea .
meal and the evening was clear and warm .
” but one of them was already unlucky .
” “she’s not .
i can write truly what i hear or think .
" they ' re all reserved , " the dining-car conductor said .
he used three pillows , as amaldo knew , and his extra bottle of medicine , not the one that
it was radiantly varnished and lovingly kept and was powered with a marine conversion of a tiny fiat engine that
i took a taxi and we climbed up through the gardens , by the empty palace and the unfinished church
the town had evidently been defended , at the last , from the line of the sunken road and there
over here , the way they ' re brought up , they ' ll all make you a good wife
square by a side street and stopped in front of the hotel montoya .
when they all stepped back on the scaf olding back of the drop , which was very heavy , built
“that was where i was .
” so what could he do , wilson thought .
" " i want to go over to the barber-shop .
jack went to his corner walking that funny jerky way and we got him down through the ropes and through
he was not shy from ignorance , nor from being ill at ease , nor from any defect .
he started to work his way back to the stern on his hands and knees , being careful not to
” “oh yes .
jack , ” soldier said .
“want to play some cribbage , jerry ?
it ' s just like the fratellinis used to be .
you must devise a way so that you sleep a little if he is quiet and steady .
we ' ll have breakfast there .
and some com meal .
” “wouldn’t you like to be in politics ?
mais maintenant , no .
” “you go back and read now .
“they’re friends of his , ” john said .
they ought to make you drag a chain like a high-octane truck .
' ' how do you feel about the russians , if it is not indiscreet to ask , my colonel
” “is it a worth-while head ?
" " i would like to take the great dimaggio fishing , " the old man said .
” i called a waiter over .
' ' they all look like bulls to me .
it was the rule of the house that they should all remain on duty until the diners whose tables they
“then it’s going to be just like the lion , ” said margot , rull of anticipation .
maybe i should have made a bigger supper , littless .
we drove to the scene of the disaster in trucks along poplar-shaded roads , bordered with ditches containing much minute
he ' s over fifteen hundred pounds the way he is , he thought .
he’s a cold one , though .
places they would be together .
some are cynical and some are extremely eager .
their boots clean , and went in .
but i did not mean it in that way .
he saw it first when it jumped in the air , true gold in the last of the sun and
come on , boy , he said to himself .
wolfhound , something lean , racy , long-legged and ornamental .
that was true .
he shot again , remembering to lower his aim , and they all heard the bullet hit , and the
i’ll bet you made him , ” krebs sat up in bed .
ever known , going back to the earliest thing you remember--which was , with me , the attic of the
” asked an artillery officer who was waiting to have a wound in his arm dressed .
it and hit it .
" " i never seen walcott , " i said .
now everything ' s gone .
' you jumped two yards .
it was dirty luck and a great misfortune and was it true that all my works were in it .
garrick started to whisper a speech here but m ' cola shut him up again .
" " did you know him ?
come along with me and bill .
interpret for him , and so the waitress brought him something else as a replacement , a plate of cold
of course i didn ' t know anything about the eskimo .
” “hell no .
the review commenced publication in carmel , california , and finished in provincetown , massachusetts .
” “it doesn’t bother me .
" i wish to present my fiancée , mademoiselle georgette leblanc , " i said .
” red asked .
then he pulled himself up on the log and sat , the water from his trouser and boots running down
“i’m so glad .
cameras , the graflex and the cinema camera and my flashlight .
" i ' m too old , " zurito said .
hills , having failed on the flats , losing a shot the night before on this lick because of the
pop , we have them in the container .
' my colonel , ' he said .
dusty afternoon with a big crowd watching , and now , with a broken back , was going to learn
no one would be allowed in now .
up a rise of ground and i could see the strung out line coming towards us .
i ' d shoot one but it ' s too late now .
" out in the centre of the ring , all alone , romero was going on with the same thing
her brown arm .
the only other shot is into his chest or , if you’re to one side , into the neck or
he once tried to warn a girl he knew against a man of whom he had almost proof that he
' what is it ?
i’m just using the boric now .
all right , you bastards !
we must leave this place now .
i was sorry i was such a bastard about the camera .
they sat at the next table and ate .
“let’s see what it looks like , ” i said .
it was all romero .
' ' do you mind being here out of season ?
we went after him , keeping him on the quarter once i’d made the turn .
but i’m going to damn well find out .
' the hell with them , ' i said to pop .
' but i will check .
kitchen .
” “the first time , ” he said .
you never notice them .
aside .
' ' here , ' said pop .
i do not see why that one , of all the muscles , should fail me .
i ' ll keep yours and mine together on ice and we can share them in the morning .
' do i have to tell ?
" " are you sure ?
it was all strange .
" " you ' re the doctor , " hogan says .
the young gentleman went on ahead .
stayed with us awhile .
' ' i ' ll touch it now , ' the colonel said .
and very light exercise .
” “but you haven’t got proof .
she was sick and when she was sick she was sick as southern women are sick .
“we’ll get you right in , ” he said .
was really an accident .
' ' you are sure ?
” “if it’s not too much trouble .
stayed at the luarca until their last pesetas were gone .
not their feelings nor anything .
he walked past portrait , only looking casually and looked at himself in the mirror .
it just catches .
perhaps i had read something about it once .
lives there .
gun that his father had given him .
i sleep light .
“i’ve been cleaning out the basement , dear , ” my mother said from the porch .
for a long time he had been thinking about all the fine places he would like to be buried and
” asked the little man looking at the sergeant and opening his eyes wide .
do you think he ever had to go and look for material ?
the island between the toes of the black slaves .
she looked very pale .
where did you get that hat ?
' it was a token defence of course .
” “like it ?
” the young gentleman went back into the hotel and spoke to his wife .
" " this is where it ' s good , " the innkeeper said .
" " i don ' t know , " he said .
made a living from feeding and bedding resorters who rocked in rustic chairs on the front porch of his hotel
the battle of caporetto and was killed in his staff car by the italian rearguard as he drove into udine
the shutters were up but the door was open .
she should have guns as good as she is .
finally i went to sleep in the chair with my feet on a chop-box and when i woke there was
he had always thought it was solitary drinking that made drunkards .
” “you know i rather like the dark .
the way i can ' t stop getting .
' renata , daughter , ' the colonel said .
they were in a storm , the rain so thick it seemed like flying through a waterfall , and then
they sleep and the moon and the sun sleep and even the ocean sleeps sometimes on certain days when there
” the adjutant made a motion with his hand to the second runner who went out .
" get me some water in this , jake .
was the crowd looking in .
my father reached the package across the aisle .
that ' s a fine place , sir .
at first krebs , who had been at belleau wood , soissons , the champagne , st .
my father sat and did not say anything and i wondered what he was thinking .
‘not for hundred fifty dollars .
of the royal cellars and the date it had been put in the bins .
let it go .
we are smoking the enemy with artillery and mortar .
what you wanted was the minimum of government , always less government .
our left .
” he was sweating .
_num_ d soldier—all right , george , we’ll have a round of the red .
” “i believe that’s true , nickie .
get out of sight .
it was awkward getting his thumb inside the fly reel frame .
you will pardon me .
“of course it’s an accident , ” he said .
he ' s just like all these hookers .
the winds always come in lent , mr .
manuscripts back with and that were kept in a small persian lacquered box that had a pornographic painting inside of
" " you get it while i go in and dress .
” “i told you that .
" " go on , " i said .
some is the hard kind from the kitchen .
' ' i wish we had old leather pants , ' pop said .
beer , and then we’d like the hops .
was waiting .
this was almost the best hour of the day .
“don’t bother to talk with these two .
and now this life that she had built again was coming to a term because he had not used iodine
motorcyclists in leather suits and helmets came up and down the cut on their cycles or , where it was
of the shoulder and squeezed off .
" " he never worked very well with me .
“that’s not very polite .
with all my worldly goods i thee endow , he thought .
was raining in one of the interminable winters , when the rain fell always ; or at least , always
' thank you , jackson , ' the colonel told him .
berries and try to get some birds .
“what did you do today ?
” “the long-distant future , ” he said .
he had learned that in the army .
we came walking down the cut to get into the staff car that would take us to madrid .
” “does it come out on the secret place ?
' ' you ' re in good shape , colonel , ' the surgeon said .
it was not fear or dread .
it had begun very simply .
” “it’s all we’ve got .
looked at the arm and hand of the negro and at the negro ' s face .
araquistain who is ambassador in paris now .
" there ' s nothing funny , " the cook said .
" " i won ' t .
we ' ll drink it inside .
were right dead neck and neck for a second but kzar seemed going about twice as fast with those great
i had to get rid of him too fast .
” “good .
hopkins said very confidently that none of them would make fun of his real girl .
' the native showed that the horn was as long as his arm .
life together in madrid during the last period of the spanish civil war .
i ' m going away from you , and then michael ' s coming back .
the rain had stopped but the mist hung over the ground and we found the salt-lick rained out and not
' now look .
it isn’t a bad walk .
you must hold in the hemorrhage .
” from the crowd .
he spread the mouth of the sack and looked down in at the two big trout alive in the water
then there was silence .
i ' ll buy it , the colonel said , to himself , since there was no one else there
he trotted , heavy , bigfooted , swinging wounded full-bellied , through the trees toward the tall grass and cover
" mumms .
i had no idea that boy was capable of anything like that strength .
to see what we each saw .
' ' all of the time .
, talking away , was kandisky of the tyrolese pants .
when we were about half through eating , john came in and sat down with us .
ask mr .
“it doesn’t look like the landes does it , ” roger said and lifting the cup felt the drink icy
" that ' s it .
coming as lumpily as ever .
” “it keeps having new springs , ” nick said .
but i don’t want you to get tired of trout .
how much money have we got ?
” “lovely place , ” i said .
i had quite a trip , you know .
" they ' re a couple of sharpshooters .
" the count stood up , unbuttoned his vest , and opened his shirt .
i ' m too nervous .
” he got the money out of the cash box , although then he always carried a hundred or more
“that’s a real book .
“hello , harry , ” he said to me and waved .
" she looked away .
it was after five when we struck off across the maize field and down to the stream , crossing where
is provided and each man learns all there is for him to know about it without advice ; and it
writes damned fine things in _the saturday evening post_ about , what ' s the bloke ' s name ,
we walked through the garden .
he sure is a mean son of a bitch , jackson thought , and he can be so god-damn nice
read it in some book with stiff covers .
' do you think we might organize a homage and manifestation in some historic place such as san marco or
poor fellow .
' ' i don ' t think so .
i was just on the edge of it .
i’ve got to bring him out of that and get his head down .
i always wished i could .
manuel could not read it , but he imagined it was in memory of his brother .
“you’re not coming , ” wilson said .
” “rudement , ” the first rummy camarade said .
” “you haven’t seen me lately .
arrows .
“you shut up .
when they came i locked the door .
cripps will probably ration it shortly , anyway .
i never saw them .
” “you know , ” he told her , “we’re awfully lucky to have come here .
" well , " i said .
” “everything looked marvelous .
this is difficult and you have to throw away the big picture and be a division .
could make a short cut and get back before the sun set .
told his sister .
” “you are a philosopher .
so i’m going to try to be good .
and no one to help either one of us .
' go hang yourself .
“now he’ll make his run , ” i said .
” “non , monsieur .
" oh , jake , " brett said , " we could have had such a damned good time together
there were tram-cars in the towns and big advertisements for the belle jardinière and dubonnet and pernod on the walls
i passed the man with the jumping frogs and the man with the boxer toys .
” “never , ” i said .
" the big whore shook with laughing .
it is always cool in the down-stairs dining-room and we had a very good lunch .
they found touraine to be a very flat hot country very much like kansas .
the hills .
she was quite dead and absolutely rigid .
" god let him jump , " the old man said .
chapter xxi the colonel took the ten _centesimi_ gondola across the canal , paying the usual dirty note and standing
we both took a bull-fight very hard .
" " it is very hot .
pull , hands , he thought .
" what ' s the matter with him ?
' but if you would like some perrier-jouet---- ' ' bring it , ' the colonel said and added ,
“frances , ” she said .
to know it as i knew the country around the lake where we were brought up .
” “eat some more salad , ” fontan said .
” “and why does one do it ?
" want me to treat you rough like walcott ?
“that’s all i seem to say .
" " and my grandfather lived with them too when he was a boy , didn ' t he ?
in the ordinary .
“i’ll fade you , ” the flyer said .
of beer and johnson with another .
” “i’m going to , ” he told her and drank half the drink .
out on the plateau beyond the town employees of the bull-ring exercised picador horses , galloping them stiff-legged on the
, and the crash came again to go past him ripping the air apart .
there was a great shout from the crowd , and putting my head through between the boards i saw the
shoulder .
he was so good that spider promptly overmatched him and got his nose permanently flattened .
' but it is true .
but what about the time ?
don ' t think i don ' t think so , sir .
he saw the lick by the road and trailed up to the other one .
he leans forward on the wooden counter .
three or four times jack brings the right over but walcott gets it on the shoulder or high up on
i’d lost five hundred and thirty dollars of the charter , and tackle i couldn’t replace for three hundred and
i had not been thinking about her side of it .
from the sea when the wind disturbed them .
“he can’t pull that stuff with me , jerry .
' please , darling , ' the girl said .
' ' not very likely .
he is a very good man .
, the lion roared again and francis thought he was just at the edge of camp .
it will be a long time before we will need it .
he had been noticing nothing but her lovely face .
he heard a wind come up in the trees outside and felt it come in cool through the screen .
manosduros was zurito ' s nickname .
i wish i could fight it again , he thought .
when i was a girl i thought if i renounced the world and went into the convent i would be
not a damn thing .
" what do you mean , kike , you big irish bum ?
' ' i believed him .
’ ‘oui , ’ il dit .
” “tonight we’ll have champagne for the lion , ” wilson said .
” “that’s important .
" you see them ?
seems as though that were the thing that keeps it all going and about the only thing you can figure
this is a real bull .
' ' should i have said chow instead of grub ?
he’s going to figure some more things out for himself , roger thought .
it had seemed so absolute .
i went there to the grappa to see where my brother was buried .
they caused the accident .
know if evans hires anyone to do the chores .
robert cohn tried to say he did not want any of the second meat course , but we would not
paper and tied with a piece of red string .
i wish we could have picked some berries .
” so now it was all over , he thought .
" you ' re pie-eyed .
his size .
" be yourself .
historical interest and because its omission would spoil the rhythm .
do you know what he’d done ?
while they sat there his wife had reached forward and put her hand on wilson’s shoulder .
the whole staff .
her face was white and she looked ill .
” “that only leaves time for one meal .
romero waved his picadors to their places , then stood , his cape against his chest , looking across the
he felt the egg spurt in the rye bread as his teeth went through the bread , the slice of
” he stood there and i wanted to move but i was really still asleep .
' amazing , ' i told the roman .
i cannot keep it like you keep the stones .
anything that size would be angry .
“i want to write , ” he said .
” “thanks , ” i said .
she’s friendly and she’s all right .
also i wanted the whisky for itself , because i loved the taste of it and because , being as
but when they shut the traps down there’s really nothing inside .
now here is the situation—i married a man in u .
“they were skunks .
it was simply the pleasure of discovering what we each felt .
' ' i don ' t think you can love very much after you , yourself , are dead ,
“he was from a very good family in vevey .
but awfully good .
” “you are not a human being .
not so good , jake .
are always faintly embarrassed to read them and wonder whether you really wrote them or did you maybe hear them
there were some funny things , though .
' droopy ' s handsome .
” “it is very good .
there’s a farmer comes to see what’s the matter , and we give him something to drink , and he
the locataire across the hall whose husband was a bicycle racer and her joy that morning at the crémerie when
' ' i don ' t care .
we wished him " mucha suerte , " shook hands , and went out .
” “but you gave me the telephone number .
" he ' s asleep .
it out , rather it was a sort of oral spiritual examination with the questions always a little on the
in spite of her resolution not to cry , her eyes were wet .
” “i’m praying that it will , ” sister cecilia said .
as soon as we get out where we are going i will work just as hard and as well as
" get it yourself .
in his own bulls he was perfect .
characters liked the look of these woods much .
" " don ' t you like her ?
" " come on and we ' ll get a drink in the pub next door and send for one
they came in .
probably more valuable to yourself than to anyone else , is the hell of it .
it was clouding over again .
there was a carved wooden clock on the wall and a bar at the far end of the room .
the sun and his steady movement of his fingers had uncramped his left hand now completely and he began to
the steps by which she had acquired him and the way in which she had finally fallen in love with
the wind blew everything like that away .
a sack of liquor only weighs about forty pounds but he had not dumped very many of them before he
“they said they were going to make an example of you and send you to the reform school .
" would you go and find hogan and tell him we want to see him in about half an hour
he shot again and missed and he heard the carawonging roar as wilson shot and saw the leading bull slide
if his accounts had been paid up at the luarca he would have finished the bottle .
” “i wonder if the cards will ever win a pennant ?
he was not bleeding much now ; the sun and the heat must have dried the wounds and we found
“i didn’t have any luck .
" you wouldn ' t call them bananas ?
and dressed to go down into the dining-room for breakfast .
with their capes .
" they got a good crowd , " jack says .
” “you didn’t use to be that way .
“but the way this trip gone i ain’t got confidence no more .
the innkeeper went in with us and unlocked his office and brought out our mail .
“if he’s the president , you think we get the wine and beer all right ?
instead of fear he had a feeling of definite elation .
" " i saw them go through from the balcony .
“he ain’t hard to hit .
” “gentlemen with the same outlook on life .
in the personal columns of el liberal which said : paco meet me at hotel montana noon tuesday all is
he thinks you should be allowed to drive the car .
' ' that is an awful way to say a sad thing .
on the yellow plain , the birds circling over a white patch there , another beyond , there a third
i tell you , colonel , sir , a man who hasn ' t been checked out on this painting
he would let this one cool while he read the paper .
“all in good time .
' ' that ' s lovely , ' she said .
” “they were coons probably , ” carl said .
" i feel sorry about cohn , " bill said .
the clouds were building up now for the trade wind and he looked ahead and saw a flight of wild
see you soon .
' ' what other things ?
” “when you look the way you do , daughter , there aren’t any tricks .
the railway from the pine plains .
' ' should i turn for it now ?
" " i can ' t look at him .
' i do not know , ' she said .
his shirt had been patched so many times that it was like the sail and the patches were faded to
' ' fill it and i ' ll look at the light and i will go on .
around the major ' s eyes were two white circles where his snow-glasses had protected his face from the sun
” he picked up the two heavy bags and carried them around the station to the other tracks .
“i got to go over there , ” manuel said , and started on a run for the other side
this lardner , he ' s so wise now , ask him about when he picked willard at toledo .
they just let the air in and then it ' s all perfectly natural .
the two flat-faced men in the leather coats stood by us on the ridge to let the tank pass .
john had gray-blue eyes and dark hair and a dark mustache and he always looked as though he had wandered
isn ' t it wonderful to have people who do not lie ?
“we’ve got to be closer tomorrow .
” “how can there be solidarity of workers with fools like you ?
reached it over the fence to manuel .
so we walked up the street now , protected by the wall , four abreast , carrying the cameras and
" they won ' t weigh twenty-six arrobas , " said the critic .
then he whispered into her ear as gently as he knew how to whisper , as his whisper was when
if i hadn ' t had to leave and pull out i would have got a sable bull .
they don ' t talk any .
what is the matter with that son of a bitch ?
he went up , his neck up and out , his head horn-heavy , his withers rounded like a fighting
' it is the one altogether pleasant thing about it .
' he ' s my pal .
now juma had worked out the trail and motioned to his father and they started on .
i only meant i’d like to talk about it if you’d like to .
i knew i was quite drunk , and when i came in i put on the light over the head
bought her own clothes for twenty years now from the same maison de couturier in the rue saint honoré .
if i lose her i lose my living .
you put the gun away .
” manuel looked down at his glass .
the line and break it .
" i ' ll be right back .
me to the fishing-trip in spain we had talked about last winter .
come on and kill me .
" " we made a very fine attack .
” i motioned to frankie with my thumb .
" " to-morrow ?
but down below he began to feel dizzy so he came out on deck again .
” “it’s none of my business , yes , but it was your business .
the brakeman opened the door .
i don’t think you’ve ever seen it either .
” macomber’s face was shining .
they went under the white bridge and under the unfinished wood bridge .
" asked the waitress .
the bridge , the drivers , the horses , and the whips rising above the walking people in the street
" " i ' d kill him like that , " nick said .
" " go to sleep , " i said .
i had been quite ill and had that pleasant feeling of getting stronger each day .
" you can ' t go , " madame fontan said .
i am an extremaduran and i hate foreigners .
pushed the muzzle almost into the earhole and fired twice , jerking the bolt and driving it forward angrily .
has he any children ?
” “it’s funny , ” i said .
first we must try to make sure there were no more of them in the timber or the meadow that
_num_ d soldier—well , i couldn’t feel any worse .
" " i can ' t sleep , either .
i love what we did he meant .
” the referee is talking to john and he says , “what could i do ?
it sputtered in the pan .
' that ' s great , ' i said , the words coming out as cheerfully as a croak .
it is good here and good there , too .
our guest put his head in the window .
” “good , ” walcott says .
don ' t lie to me .
' will you check me on the fork ?
my eyes , my mind , and all inside of me were full of the blackness of that sable bull
' ' he painted some wonderful women , ' the colonel said .
patches of dancers .
i didn’t mean to start this , and now i’m crazy as a coot and being as cruel to you
“does the young gentleman drink too ?
] [outside in the street .
” there was a certain amount of moving around going on below but i wasn’t spooked about them .
make a move under the door .
" you stay here .
so all the country to the westward was a loss in the evening and in the country we could hunt
” “good , ” red said .
i tell you the only shots that came in the café were into the show case .
had come out so nice i didn’t have the heart .
but what was the real one ?
the same as ever .
" what do you think it ' s all about ?
" " that ' s all right , " william campbell said .
watching the cleaning up is bad for you .
then i will tell you what it looks like .
” “no breakfast , ” she said .
finally we had to leave it in stuff we could not move through .
she was always thoughtful , he thought .
" " yes , if he ' s in .
" we were outside jack ' s room .
the wanderobo-masai insisted pitifully that he go .
guinea hen were all right , and i had one now in the lunch box in the back of the
“can i have fifty now ?
' ' how often do you think of me during the week ?
" what a morning , " bill said .
the diner and through the tables back to the kitchen .
you opened your mouth , colonel or no colonel .
" do you come here to the café often ?
a long sweep of country , was the brown rift valley and the shine of lake manyara .
she did not sleep pretty , he thought .
then he looked behind him and saw that no land was visible .
” he felt her fingers touch that huge sunken place a baseball could have been pushed through , that grotesque
" can ' t you sleep , signor tenente ?
“it’s sandy bottom , you know , ” he said .
flies hit the water .
i could ask cipriani .
” “john , ” mr .
" it ain ' t that .
he had waved the waiter away and sat reading the paper and occasionally looking down at manuel , asleep ,
then the road came over the crest , flattened out , and went into a forest .
" the sort of healthy conceit that he had when he returned from america early in the spring was gone
“i’ve seen it now .
his mind was bitterly revolving eight blank days of hill climbing in the heat , out before daybreak , back
“i wouldn’t mind bird-shot any .
we don ' t need a map on this part .
that was funny .
“ain’t no nigger any good when he’s shot .
' we started toward them .
“you’re all right , ” he said .
got out the books and m ' cola made a small fire and boiled water for tea .
up at pubs and go right across the oberland and up the valais and all through the engadine and just
" i ' m sleepy now .
” he looked at me very blankly and tiredly , then said , having to share his worry with some
” al went into the bathroom .
' frightful , ' pop agreed .
" i ' d be too excited .
now it doesn’t matter what your score is .
he leaned back insultingly and shook the wide-spread flannel .
get smaller and smaller and then all bunched up on the turns and then come around towards into the stretch
but i love this kind of hunting .
" i didn ' t want to have to leave you here too .
” nick was still looking down at the little man , lying , his eyes closed in the firelight .
we ought to do it in the winter time .
but they ' re there .
” “she’s indian all right .
the ground was soft with pine needles and there was no dew .
' by god , it ' s a calf , ' pop said .
i took a drink of the whisky and it had no taste and i felt no kick from it .
' ' i ' m never angry .
wasn’t he a wonderful lion ?
" " it was extraordinary .
“you were marvellous , darling , ” she said to macomber .
“can’t we go into the shade ?
there was a great deal of money , also wet , and onie and claude and the other outfit cut
' ' my god , she looks big , ' i whispered .
" robert cohn asked .
” frankie asked .
“that’s what we drink to .
i could not , conscientiously , chance staying .
please put your hand here .
well , he said to himself , we ' re finished here and pretty soon there will be good light
“it seems i have the face of a russian and it’s getting me into trouble .
he pegged the sides out taut and drove the pegs deep , hitting them down into the ground with the
i wish that son of a bitch that is lousing up the duck shooting had a rifle and i had
hole and tamped it down and put the grass that he had cored out over it .
they tell me you make your living with the hands .
' ' with me , i guess , ' the colonel said .
“you’re used to it .
' ' you wait here with m ' cola , ' i whispered over my shoulder .
he was huge .
poor beggar .
do you know the clearance you have on your differential and your body frame on this ?
at the roar he jumped and was going into the brush , but i knew i had hit him .
but they still had not dried in the sun nor shed their petals .
' can ' t you run an elevator properly ?
speed made as you dropped down like a bird .
i wonder what it would have been like if i had ever had the money to buy me that kind
no pepper .
' by god , he ' s a better bull than we thought , ' i said .
they brought me here from the boat before daylight and left me , with a password and nothing to eat
and he went away and did not even say good-bye .
" " have you got tickets ?
but i’ve got my wolf back , ” he touched the sheet with his tongue .
” “you ought to , ” carl said .
oh , they ' ll have to take me , all right .
i love them all three , hard , and i think they’re wonderful .
“wash them and put them in the ice box , nickie , ” mrs .
' thanks very much for the drink , ' the colonel said and arnaldo , who was talking into the
" " then he would know frederick j .
but there was not much of it .
all say he was well liked in the hospital and made himself as useful as a man with one hand
" this is for twenty-five lire .
” she asked him .
i am thirty-five .
_où sont les neiges d ' antan ?
“how’s to let me take a couple of dollars , harry ?
" " how do you know it was nothing ?
" do you speak other languages besides english ?
the money could be arranged .
' what did you tell him ?
” “bring me some coffee and milk and a shot of the ordinary , ” manuel said .
' ' do you think your compatriot has looked him up in baedeker ?
as enrique rose to his feet , thin , gaunt , sharply outlined in the beam , pulling at the
' ah , pop , ' i said .
but i would have given plenty not to have seen him in there .
" " castrate me .
" got a stamp , hogan ?
it would be easy if there was some boy my own age to copy .
“don’t be a damn fool , wemedge , ” he said .
“i just asked you , sergeant , who killed this italian .
" " well , " i said , " so long .
then he moved again .
" " when did she marry ashley ?
good-bye , mr .
i dreamed just as i say .
" " i just talk around it .
if you move around , even with something worth giving away , the men will group and that invites shelling
so there was little movement to the water , and the dead had stayed , there a long time ,
“the attack has failed , ” i said .
” “you’re sleepy you mean .
” “i remember when he came in , ” a waiter said .
he was all for macomber again .
he was double the size a lobster should be , and his unfriendliness had gone with the boiling , so
' ' it wouldn ' t be right .
" that is the secret .
would not work out .
i asked them to .
“the nigger and my bright boy are amused by themselves .
it couldn ' t have been about sliding .
against the glare of the afternoon sun with a screen of broken matting , when the authority arrived accompanied by
keeping themselves steady in the current with wavering fins .
resistant to the comb .
another day , with p .
' ' when you ' re lucky .
“oh .
“you see it ?
" look , " i said .
tackle , too .
“where did the ham come from ?
that was what the paper said .
_ _num_ d soldier_--i knew her before he did .
jack poured out a couple of drinks .
pop and i were up and looking at the heads before breakfast .
he wiped his lips .
i understand about the size of the army and the various problems .
" " the tessera tells you .
it was a deep sound and at the end there were sort of coughing grunts that made him seem just
" " i didn ' t , " cohn said .
his pack was heavy and the straps painful as he lifted it on .
they were noisy at night when you could not sleep .
' please don ' t forget to remind me to give back the stones .
* * * * * then , later , it was a long time after and billy was still away
he would as soon be in bed with her as any one ; rather with her , because she was
the fish was coming in on his circle now calm and beautiful looking and only his great tail moving .
i’ve got a good mind to make you jump overboard now .
i got in and sat beside her .
they made everything so far apart .
' those others we stop at ; but not for the night .
he put them in the car where m ' cola sat laughing ; his old man ' s healthy laugh
hook out .
live the full life of the mind , exhilarated by new ideas , intoxicated by the romance of the unusual
” “i am a writer .
pads .
i meant nothing to him .
i am sorry that i went too far out .
' wait , ' pop said .
they spread apart after they were out of the mouth of the harbour and each one headed for the part
he had already , since he had mounted , sitting in the half-dark in the big , quilted saddle ,
we outgrew some countries and we went to others but beer was still a bloody marvel .
" quite a girl , " bill said .
' three men usually get out of the five (that are inside) and they run like broken-field runners that have
he wanted to see zurito .
from behind him , he heard the incoming whisper of wings and he crouched , took hold of his right-hand
“he went through here ’bout an hour and a half ago .
we had not left it , yet , but when i would wake in the night i would lie ,
armpit .
nigger fixing on a couple of mackerel ; passing the hook through their mouth , out the gills , slitting
" " do you know if he belongs to the national geographic society ?
” “if we have any luck we won’t have to stay in these .
" i like to do a lot of things .
“what do you think it’s all about ?
and falling to the left side to keep the horse between him and the bull .
you know , perfume , a couple of fans and two of those high combs .
maybe he can tell me .
then there must be discipline .
” “don’t bother , ” nick said .
” “exactly , gentlemen , ” nick said .
' watch it , roman .
the two wardens were in the back of the store with mr .
it started and went on so .
but when he put all of his effort on , starting it well out before the fish came alongside and
i wouldn’t know how to get back here .
and the trees were big , high-trunked , and old with no undergrowth but only the smooth green of the
the blood ran down his cheek a little way .
” “don’t you think we might all be buried at a convenient place ?
french sporting life .
' ettore left and the girl turned towards him and looked in his old steel eyes and put both her
" zurito said .
' ' i ' d like to try to write something about the country and the animals and what it
' ' let ' s talk about something else , ' p .
” it moved up closer to him still and now he could not speak to it , and when it
the evening we killed the first lion it was dark when we came in sight of camp .
" what the hell .
the alcohol .
“you could always be mrs .
manuel swung his body clear and , as the bull recharged , brought around the muleta in a half-circle that
he reported at bologna , and i took him with me up into the romagna where it was necessary i
other window , blowing across her as she slept without stirring .
i swear to god i will .
but they had no wish to provoke him .
as far down the long stretch as he could see , the trout were rising , making circles all down
and i couldn’t help feeling that if my old man was dead maybe they didn’t need to have shot gilford
“if he drinks like that he’ll go to sleep , ” another flyer said .
then over on her beam ends .
“edgar hoover exaggerates his publicity , ” said the doctor .
“i don’t want to , ” kate said .
" it was the first time i had seen her in the old happy , careless way since before she
all set .
she ' s making a lot of money .
" " oh , my god , i don ' t know .
at his table .
a rather pretentious title .
should we go and have breakfast at the gritti ?
“wine is better , ” the soldier said .
they were the descendants of the communards and it was no struggle for them to know their politics .
the stretching of the ears , in the tribal scars , or in a man carrying a spear .
“i would never denounce him myself , ” i said , now trying to undo for myself what i had
the dressings had all come down and she could not look at it .
” “au show .
” “i am angry now , ” he said .
“it’s not going to be an easy one to write .
” “what was the other thing you were going to do ?
” “you know i don’t think i’d ever be afraid of anything again , ” macomber said to wilson .
nothing wrong .
best race courses in the world .
the lens wide and focused on the bull the sun was only lighting the tops of the trees .
” “two , ” she said .
“i did not kill this italian .
' ' i have always been like that .
have to see , you dull and blunt the instrument you write with .
" bright boy can do everything , " max said .
you said you loved it there .
fights or any picturesque or strange incidents .
temper , never bragging , never complaining except in a joke , tolerant , understanding , intelligent , drinking a
' ' just a little .
but he knew that she blamed him for being alive when vicente was dead and suddenly—in the small and unconditioned
you ' re not interested in my troubles , " he addressed the first porter .
“what were they doing ?
the first one i wrote was “up in michigan , ” written in paris in _num_ .
they make money .
" " i damned well was , too .
“or those yellow boys will get you .
” they turned sharp down the bank and peduzzi stood , his coat blowing in the wind , gesturing at
he has a nice practical looking place .
the prisoner slipped down with his head and hands on the floor .
' ' then you think of something and i ' ll eat it , ' the colonel said , '
“give me fifty lire .
“bring another bottle of wine , please .
” he shut his eyes .
so we could not simply take it .
“silver beer , bevo , ginger-ale , ” george said .
on the seat you start destroying her and denying her without any formalities of cocks crowing , twice nor thrice
they came in a buggy and they asked where you were .
these were not like the brown , heat-baked mountains we had left behind .
who is laughing now .
on the metal cuts and scratches and sifted sulfa on onie and claude and me and then claude took care
but they do not try to be smart and are never long-winded .
” “maybe we won’t have to .
it was cold from the night and the mixed fruit and the cold syrupy juice sucked down smoothly .
who the hell asked you to butt in here ?
i read all your letters .
but you’ve got to realize—” “i realize , ” the girl said .
she told him .
“sorry .
" " in chicago ?
so i did not shoot again .
" not so bad .
masai behind now in a mad sprint .
once george had gone out to the kitchen and made a ham-and-egg sandwich “to go” that a man wanted to
' pop came out , finally , with a book and we took no notice of garrick ' s head-dress
mercenaries … they make a thousand dollars a month .
brett can ' t get up in the morning .
“i don’t want to .
hearing the thing roar gets on my nerves .
cohn came up .
ain’t it a beauty ?
and i will read the new fresh _vogue_ and _harper ' s bazaar_ ?
we had him all right .
” nick would look across the lake and he could see the long wooded shore-line , the higher timber behind
” “isn’t it sort of late ?
" it sounded silly when he said it .
hell , he thought , i have these damned stones .
“no , american .
he checked on the one that had it first and noted he slept peacefully , chin down , with the
he wished he could give it to odgar , or tell odgar about it .
heard of any of it .
smoke above it , and the dawson mountains looking like real mountains with the winter snow on them .
you haven ' t slept nights ever since i been with you .
” and he had no fear , only hatred of wilson , while the brakes clamped on and the car
it’s easy .
colonel had ever known .
one was large and one was small and they certainly both looked strong and active .
" see that horse-cab ?
i ' d like to go to san dona to see the bridge again .
' ' remember to take it very easy .
the colonel looked at her and saw she was indefensible , now that the light was good , or almost
' ' pea-less , ' i said , ' at the last .
” “we’re terrific .
, my dearest ?
there was a racing motor car finished entirely in silver with dans argent lettered on the hood .
the leaves on the trees were turned by the fall and sometimes you saw the river through the branches of
' he took the glasses from m ' cola .
” “we’ll go there too , ” he said .
" " oh no , " jack says .
but crime comes easy for you and me , nickie .
droopy asked for the knife .
one was to bring down the fever , another a purgative , the third to overcome an acid condition .
a bottle of that _vino secco_ , from vesuvius , for the small soles .
it was only a line burn that had cut his flesh .
' get two chairs , ' the colonel said to the second waiter , ' and put them there .
single season .
asked him what was the difference between tactics and strategy .
slowly up the trail with the mules .
" " the englishmen all have saturday off , " woolsey said .
” “you don’t think things we’ve had and done should make any difference in understanding ?
away , and had gone on up .
oh , it’s so big and it hurts so .
and then glided down and levelled off and landed smoothly and , coming walking toward him , was old compton
and the navy , you know , wins all their fights always .
” “you can name your own price .
that’s a nice safe lead in baseball .
“i’m a little drunk now , ” nick said .
' m ' cola , theatre business , abdullah , and i came back that evening late in the cool
steinfelt , ” john said .
nick lowered the rod and the hopper floated in .
' i lowered the glasses and looked and there was garrick , taking no advantage of the cover , crawling
do i have to hate them as soldiers and as human beings ?
looking back from the mounting grade before the track curved into the hills he could see the firelight in the
" he ' s in his room and he won ' t go out .
“nous avons beaucoup de gibier là-bas .
we ' ll go .
” “bad , ” mr .
” every day i’d have to tell him the same thing but i didn’t mind that .
write it down .
they had had an argument one time about our lord never sending you anything you could not bear and some
piu d’un’ mezz’ora .
' i ' m damned glad you got him , ' i said .
sing but i could see the cuban standing in the stem of the boat holding the sculling oar through all
' we are having it again and without sorrow .
he’d show them .
the train passed through many outside of paris towns .
' ' i ' m glad as hell it isn ' t , ' the colonel said .
don’t you think i could be good for you ?
" how about eating ?
“we got to keep amused , haven’t we ?
at the shot the head dropped forward .
“try and hit me .
now the reaction had set in .
“that is not from a book .
then he pulled up the sack , reached into it and brought out one of the trout .
if you shoot them they still won’t go .
do you think it could be true ?
p .
: “want to take pictures ?
nightshirt and saying the rosary .
now we better start the bad part .
i was just talking .
we .
i’ll cut up to the top of the hill and keep off the road .
he fought and twisted away , and started running , in the midst of them , toward the exit .
the light , under the logs , with the hook in his jaw .
nick’s father went into the kitchen and poured about half of the water out of the big kettle into a
the others ate a big meal .
the window passed , the rest of the train passed , and the tracks were empty .
he had gotten a very complicated personal feeling about kudu and , as always when he was confused , it
there ain’t any room .
gone over in a storm , it lay back into the woods , its roots clotted with dirt , grass
_num_ .
how gentlemanly the boys are before the fight !
he knew that , since he could no longer really hear as he had in the afternoon , because a
" " i wish he ' d come into pamplona .
' the colonel was conscious of using the word , and so was the _gran maestro_ , and so was
it was warm and pleasant .
they wanted her as an image to dance around .
we stopped with a skid , all got out , and walked back .
' ' it will come as a surprise , ' the _gran maestro_ said with his long and loving face
down and woke with juma holding his moccasins and feeling his bare feet for blisters .
“you’ve got to realize , ” he said , “that i don’t want you to do it if you don’t
others are ruined by the first money , the first praise , the first attack , the first time they
" it ' s pretty quiet .
shaking and crying .
some people still thought it was funny , including the forceful girl .
" that ' s true , " madame fontan said .
" how do you feel , fish ?
after a while , the shooter , who was working hard and steadily and sweating in his heavy clothes ,
see how anybody could call my old man a son of a bitch , and get away with it .
besides i believe it is a sin .
let ' s go in and see brett .
” “didn’t you see the direction sticks on the three ridges ?
the old man ' s head was clear and good now and he was full of resolution but he had
ahead was a river-valley .
ever visit friends that didn ' t want you ?
elk must feel if you break a shoulder and he gets away and in that night i lay and felt
" " december , " said the sexton .
upstairs jack sat on the bed with his head in his hands .
” “what would you like to do ?
do you think that ' s right ?
“it’s a good town .
" " thought any more about going to south america ?
he thought that coming home had not lasted very long .
” “we don’t know each other well enough to ask personal questions , comrade , ” al said .
” “were they happy ?
they asked him if he knew me and he said yes .
when they are captains and lieutenants .
his face .
' i won ' t kill him unless he ' s good , ' i promised .
nancy hawthorne is obliged to make her own soundings in the sea of life .
' ' did you not have to fight at all ?
the local news .
that is if you have a tailor here who can cut clothes .
them over to dinner and her telling marge all the time what to do and how to act .
people can get hurt at it .
that the fire which broke out just before we arrived had been brought under control as rapidly as it had
luz would not come home until he had a good job and could come to new york to meet her
the bull was watching .
leave four men to guard the stuff and we will send a truck for it .
“that’s pretty good , mr .
“it tastes even better after the chocolate .
” nick showed him the tessera with photograph and identification and the seal of the third army .
shoulder muscle as he tore loose to find hernandez’s cape before his muzzle .
with the answers known his father had said , “you and i will go back to get the packs where
you never should have told them .
they do not see it ashore because they do not know what to look for , he thought .
i could believe it because of all people no one can be gentler , more understanding , more self-sacrificing ,
“this is true , true , true , and you know it .
“ease up on the drag , ” i told him .
“i’m sorry as hell .
“i ain’t forgot nothing either .
i’ll just lie here for a little while .
the hell he ' s ever been a good fellow .
" i am a humane man .
trimming , as the gondoliere started to scull , laying her partly on her side so that he would have
but i didn’t worry about him any more , because who was going to believe him ?
" " ever hear of it ?
" " i ' m all right , " he said .
behind were the trees and the shadow of the cathedral , and the town silhouetted against the moon .
the waiter brought the absinthe glasses .
” compton said .
he could feel the steady hard pull of the line and his left hand was cramped .
he took a full spoonful from the plate .
there ' s one in twenty minutes .
" what times we had .
“it’s an ethical problem , ” he said and shut the book .
come up easy and let me put the harpoon into you .
” the sexton came , bringing his little bottle of wine and his glass .
" " if he says anything , just say you were tight .
“big business .
" you drew the worst lot , " the boy said .
" it looks to me like a pub , " i said .
beyond the hills he knew the moon was coming up .
” “there were some small ones when we first came .
" hello , " she said , " i ' m so glad you ' re here , jake .
beyond that there were trees on both sides that had not been shelled at all .
" we ' re killing him for a friend .
nick knew there were trout in each shadow .
” “no , ” she said .
" good-by , mrs .
" " you ought to get married , signor tenente .
as he followed the flying fish .
go away , for god ' s sake .
, the two chambermaids , paco’s sisters , were on their way to the cinema to see greta garbo in
“don’t look gloomy , ” she said .
“that’s right , ” jack said .
cough of a leopard hunting baboons ; me scared of snakes , and touching each root and branch with snake
he had made his camp .
this was certainly the way to take it .
, in a house that is watched .
she is damned beautiful , actually .
from smith’s back door you could look out across the woods that ran down to the lake and across the
you ' re a hell of a good guy , and i ' m fonder of you than anybody on
there ' s more at the other camp .
” “juma and i are all right , ” his father said .
digging at the edge of the damp ground i filled two empty tobacco-tins with worms and sifted dirt onto them
when you add water it turns milky .
the voice i would not describe as a big one .
" come and eat .
” “i beg your pardon ?
" i described where we were .
“well , they’re always in new york or philadelphia now , ” bill said .
” “the bastard !
the cat would be around to the right .
away somewhere and had missed getting it .
he had once argued about everything with hopkins .
” “about how long will it be before i die ?
we sat down and one of them came over .
” “you can go back with us and save the boat fare .
" " why don ' t you go somewhere else ?
wednesday’s payday .
that is not really true , for he was angry inside himself .
" thanks , we ' ll be in , " i said .
“are there many birds ?
and surely .
it would have to stay edge up all the time because if it went over flat you could roll right
“don’t i share in it ?
' come on over and have a drink , ' i called .
' ' we were fighting a beaten enemy whose communications had been destroyed .
and what had they been through that laughed at him ?
i cannot think very well this time of day at any rate .
it ' s certain .
" a big horn wound .
john had his head forward on the table .
“what does it cost ?
" alles ?
" he ' s good for the night and so am i .
garrick had given up tracking seriously and was only contributing theatrical successes of discovering blood when m ' cola and
“do your own business .
come here nights if you need anything .
” “then i’ll do it .
he was sorry for the birds , especially the small delicate dark terns that were always flying and looking and
' it ' s all kudu country , ' pop said .
he pulled up the undershirt onto his chest and stood , his chest black , and big stomach muscles bulging
” “but we were the right flank , ” the copain said in his rich voice .
' ' this is terrible , ' p .
he saw everything very sharp and clear .
” “i have a kind heart , ” i said .
isn ' t it a nice bar ?
" he was meaning to explain what had happened .
slob ?
i ' ve had such a hell of a happy life with the british aristocracy !
no one should have taken offense , ” the manager said .
please tell me some more about the meeting , or the assembly .
" i don ' t know , " manuel said , " retana didn ' t say .
tasting .
nick put the frying pan on the grill over the flames .
seney was burned , the country was burned over and changed , but it did not matter .
gap in the hills and shone on the cornfield , the huts and the blue hills beyond .
” “he’s mighty courteous , ” said the chef .
some are certainly spooked because karl shot that one .
“yeah , ” frank said .
then he put the right way into the body , coming up .
given to the customer , and the other side filled in and kept as a stub .
' ' try , ' the colonel said .
that we understood .
the old man ' s table .
i’ll go down and i’ll get a good five hours’ sleep before it starts .
i went into the hotel and they gave me a room .
their ultimate position , before there is any question of burial , depends on the location of the pockets in
behind the wooden counter is a hebrew wine-seller .
” “you aren’t going to stay ?
“no , thanks , ” he said .
" " i say , jake , " brett called from the next table , " you have deserted us
probably , he thought , there must be very many .
we sat and drank it , and the girl looked sullen .
“i’ll just drink a little wine and then i’ll tell you .
” roger had kissed her while he drove and she had said , “oh roger we’re so happy and we
' do you want me to really tell you , so you will know , if i am not rough
“it’s a crime .
” “salud , ” i said .
” “yesterday you were talking about going to see mr .
, the blackness a sharp line on either side .
you remember ?
feeling fit ?
we started up the road and then went across a meadow and found a path that crossed the fields and
one of the boys shot from the rear corner of the wagon and it ricocheted off the sidewalk .
' can she see us ?
he does not look well .
" poor old mike .
“can i bring you some coffee ?
trees and the movement of the big ears and the searching trunks coiling and uncoiling , hearing the crash of
take your choice , gentlemen .
gets too hot for the little memsahib .
thank him for his kind intentions ; go and pour them down the sink .
“and when he hit the prisoner .
chapter xv it was really home , if a hotel room can be so described .
not everything .
, felt under the cot for the springfield , put the searchlight beside me in the bed under the blanket
“oh , a lot of things , ” the negro answered from the fire .
' ' i must tell her , ' the girl said .
writes homage to switzerland a day’s wait a natural history of the dead wine of wyoming the gambler , the
the gentleman from montana and his wife and his son , hubert , were sitting comfortably .
coils fast .
” “there is a man here that we both knew in the old days .
smith .
seeming more discouraged than before , to bring some guides whose names dan had written on a piece of paper
we were going to attack with the three of us in line and nothing in reserve .
take me on—” “why , i loved you .
for them .
but seattle he came to know very well , the taxicab company with the big white cabs (each cab equipped
what about writing ?
i noticed his skin .
" he sat in the outer room and read the papers , and the editor and publisher and i worked
you know , like how many kilometers we make when we do seventy miles in the car ?
always made brett sleep on the floor .
“francis drinks a great deal , but his face is never red .
' ' do you work at it ?
” “you see why i didn’t want to try to make it in the dark .
hell , i never even was at shaef .
it is a street i do not mind walking down at all .
this was the kind of hunting that i liked .
saw the line slanting slowly upward .
“but it makes a difference .
they had been climbing steadily across a slope of the mountain but now the trail went down and from a
“‘bite it off just like it was a grape , ’” he said in his high-pitched voice and looked at
the boy took the old army blanket off the bed and spread it over the back of the chair and
certainly you can see her if she wishes to see you .
“leave it as it is , ” said wilson .
an unsuccessful haberdasher .
, ' pop said .
” krebs said nothing .
' that ' s not bad .
“i’m going to have a look beyond .
they are wide spread and the flying fish have little chance .
' ' yes , ' said andrea .
that isn ' t the sort of thing she likes .
with the scotch in it on the table with the paper bag full of white rock bottles .
isn’t it ?
' ' i ' ll keep on trying .
you can pay me when you get it .
break him down .
the rhino was out of sight now but i could see the shaking of the high grass .
kudu came out into the open and you sat and waited for the more enormous ones and selecting a suitable
well , i went out of there and there were plenty of them with him and some come out after
" you ' ve such lovely manners .
the banks were open until three-thirty .
“we can give ourselves no illusions about foreigners .
so i went down and caught up with them and grabbed him while he was crouched down waiting for the
” jack asks .
i don ' t believe in limited objectives .
peduzzi was walking up and down at the other end out of the wind and holding the rods .
” the other detective nodded .
he never moved .
“now , ” his father said , “there’s some stitches to put in .
" in the restaurant we ordered hors d ' oeuvres and beer .
” johnson asked the other porters .
' ' you don ' t have to .
what do you mean , kikes ?
doctor , ” doc fischer said .
until you’re grown-up they send you to reform school .
now he must be nearly to mancelona .
" " i don ' t want to know what they were like , " ole andreson said .
“he says opening bottles is what makes drunkards , ” bill explained .
don ' t tell her anything more about him .
it was a good trick and i thought how i would show it to john staib in wyoming some time
” “since the war .
" " i never played with him , " said the fat one .
end was made fast to the bitt in the bow .
equipped with a complete set of the more practical alger books .
and pop saying nothing , me sitting there cold , crazy-stubborn-furious , determined to break his neck rather than walk
“of the bianco ?
i wrote a letter .
said , ' sir , there is a dead g .
” “the nigger that cooks .
“too green .
pumping flow of blood , smooth against the black of the bull’s shoulder .
" mike started to open the bottle .
” “i came in here to have a drink before eating .
a week later the notice came that they had no response to the final warning and so his mother’s body
but maybe we could get a corner table with rommel and udet and it would be just like any winter-sports
as all the words came to seem the proper and natural words and there was nothing odd or unseemly in
bird ran forward to peck at it and david pouched another pebble and pulled it back and sent it against
you should see that boy now mr .
' ' the lick i suppose .
” i said to one of the blondes .
i’ve needed it so .
" " that ' s it , " said mike .
“i want a piece of pie , ” the ghee said .
' ' about as you would imagine .
did she ever have anything to do with him ?
we left the car and tracked them but there was no bull track .
but i noticed him drinking lots of ice water .
he never did , of course .
“you looked after everything ?
“your mouth is bloody .
” “no , you don’t .
" " we live in a different part of the country .
my clothes , had a bath in the canvas tub and came out to the fire comfortable and relaxed in
he was reserved and formal , and his face was still taut and sallow , but he cheered up finally
he was trying to take it the way he’d always heard you should .
he saw her going down the street .
jack is irish and the irish always get a pretty good hand .
cars .
” manuel lay back .
, done under bright lights , with clean linen , the wearing of evening clothes , and abundant food in
" and thou ?
we went on perhaps five yards and another sable jumped .
_oh_ , i hope you get them .
they were protected in his head by the formation of the brows ; set deep as though a special protection
he thought a moment , and signalled for another dry martini .
" " don ' t be a damned fool .
' you wouldn ' t want me to be completely otherwise ?
besides , il est _crazy_ pour elle .
chapter viii at two o’clock in the morning two hungarians got into a cigar store at fifteenth street and grand
thin , only to be observed by the initiate , lines of the excellent plastic operations after head wounds .
“warm as piss , ” nick said .
the killdeer plover fed .
“my true lovely .
“daughter .
' ' i ' ll close them .
we can use it for nuggets and things like that .
the detective came running by ; then ran back .
' ' i thought it might be one of those travelling sportsmen you see with their bows slung going along
think that we were a very big outfit to hunt quietly , although everyone seemed to move quietly enough ,
what she would be doing and all that .
that he who dies on thursday does not have to die on friday and how one soldier would wrap another
then the sleep was gone and i moved out of bed .
be a hell of a vest .
” nick pressed his back hard against her foot .
smell as he lifted the cup .
” “i got twenty-six .
“don’t you want me to go and see the police ?
tracked vehicle they were pursuing .
he was hot against her cool body , hunting for it , then it was all right .
” “i didn’t say it was morbid .
the center line of highways was the boundary line of home .
well , i hope he gets something frightfully interesting .
we came down from the pass through wooded country .
” “won’t the lady want sugar , sir ?
_num_ d soldier—it isn’t that that’s so bad , as when they first lift ’em up .
the muleta held low down in his left hand , leaning toward the left , he called to the bull
he had a date at maxim ' s at twelve .
“when will you be back ?
brother , that mr .
argument past , she wanting not to suffer , but to keep up and please mr .
' ' by mistake as i explained before .
dirt , and wilson missed and the dust rose in a cloud and wilson shouted , “come on .
” “there’s no place you can eat at this hour .
he came back much too late .
, how the old bull had come out of the bush , groggy as he was , and i could
then he motioned to the driver to go on and the car moved slowly along , the driver avoiding warthog
” “yes , sir .
edges with hollows where the animals had licked the dirt for salt , and we had seen long , heart-shaped
she says she must see you .
" " don ' t i know it , darling ?
they say she was just outside of havana harbor when the hurricane hit and she couldn ' t get in
” jim got it onto his back to carry to the smokehouse .
' ' let ' s not talk about it , ' p .
a bunch of bums .
” “you ain’t got an idea what it’s like , jerry , when you can’t sleep .
the kitchen he had lain down on the floor with a cushion from one of the chairs for a pillow
when he had cut six strips he spread them out on the wood of the bow , wiped his knife
take president coolidge .
at irun we had to change trains and show passports .
in bed .
i listened and i thought i recognized a voice .
nick swung his feet over to the side of the fireplace .
don’t try to remember too much today .
" he looks like villalta , " romero said , looking at bill .
the colonel , who was a general then and an assistant divisional commander , knew the individual print of each
the bar was cool .
and all this time he had been watching the bow of the beat-up beautifully varnished , delicately brass-striped boat ,
“did you hear me ?
" well , " said johnson , " the subject seems to be exhausted .
” he asked john , turning around , his face all swollen .
i don’t see why that had to happen to your leg .
i worry about the wife .
' what do you have on that character ?
smaller cow get away .
there was no more true elephant ; only the gray wrinkled swelling dead body and the huge mottled brown and
we will say , and i for one am proud to say--and i want you to say with me ,
jolt and roar of the burst .
also unimpressed .
the young sleep late , he thought , and the beautiful sleep half again as late .
” “various animals , ” he said , and shook his head .
“no , ” he told me , even more proudly .
” “i’m crazy .
“i’m not drunk now , see ?
to see so much plankton because it meant fish .
undoubtedly it was very fine .
" " i been there , " he said .
he pulled down the sheet and looked at mr .
let me see if there is anything new .
i wrote this on the back of the statement .
and the old man drove the knife on the oar into the juncture , withdrew it , and drove it
" you better not , " i said .
” “to travel is necessary during the light of day .
" " i knew you did .
his hand was shaky .
not a costume .
" " better give him five minutes , " al said from the kitchen .
perhaps it had only seemed faster but the elephant dung was fresher now although it was not warm yet to
you haven ' t much tendency but sometimes i see a gleam .
nothing had eaten any breakfast .
' ' like this one ?
" i told the wife i ' d take a room at the shelby to-night , " he said .
nose-clogged and heavy-loaded , down out of the battle to the long ridge above the river where the spanish troops
woods , no undergrowth now , the first sun coming through the tops of the trees , we came on
she did not think about the money any more .
“will you have another little cup ?
i know he’s a bad one of some sort .
it’s just down the street .
” “i make my living with the boat .
they would go now in a little while , he thought , and they would take the cucaracha with them
i was in the angle of shadow on the other , invisible to anyone on the hillside , and always
” he’d ask me questions about things and some of the things i’d say he’d laugh .
the one with the thompson gun was a nigger .
" zurito stood up .
“when i go out there i want to be able to call my shots on the bull .
” wilson asked in his throaty voice , filling a pipe .
pink head and pink face were moist with sweat .
frazer asked the thin one .
but i would like to go very much .
the no-bugs had it and with the roman talking steadily , i hoped on some congenial topic , the car
she’ll eat wonderfully .
" " but i won ' t go , mike , " said cohn .
“that’s a hell of a reason .
he must have hit him five inches below the belt .
his bicycle and leave the track .
" the cook opened the door from the kitchen when he heard nick ' s voice .
” “no , ” said the doctor .
the paper was mistaken .
we went around to the back .
the maritza was running yellow almost up to the bridge .
" " we really have to get into town , " i said .
i looked back as we came out and there was only the sea , and below , in the bay
then we went down the opposite side of the valley from that we had just come up trailing the wounded
they said they would be back in an hour .
“do you lack for anything ?
you can have it if you like .
for years it had obsessed him ; but now it meant nothing in itself .
yet risen .
“i’ve been asleep .
before the present vendeuse , named thérèse , there had been another vendeuse , named amélie .
it looked like hair-oil and smelled like italian strega .
thank you again very much .
" i am a tired old man .
“but suppose we say for eight thousand pesetas .
” “brother , don’t i feel as bad about it as you do ?
" " you will be uncomfortable .
we don’t save anything .
he sat there on the porch reading a book on the war .
" hey , " freedman says .
he waved and went back in the tent again .
i ' ll tell molo to pack your things .
it wasn ' t how they ended .
the little man’s cap was down over the bandage around his head and his lips were swollen .
please , please , wemedge .
” “it’s wonderful .
“we can’t serve anything now .
he had to hold it from hand to hand , as he threaded it , or it would slip back
she can stop praying .
“no , sir , ” said the barman .
in a pursuit race , in bicycle racing , riders start at equal intervals to ride after one another .
those once fresh sheets .
" it was not nice to watch if you cared anything about the person who was doing it .
they are talking .
as she stood in the doorway an umbrella opened behind her .
' ' but won ' t it be an awfully long time until morning ?
can you ?
only three chinese women .
" we were standing in front of the old chapel of the monastery .
but anyway they couldn’t have known they were quicksands and when she struck the captain must have ordered them to
big !
" you were quite green , robert .
' you ' re in good shape .
" now go down and get the ice .
then he would call up the others .
“is there any of the wine left ?
” “i want it to be like that , ” she said .
trail that went into the stream and treading on this , the bottom fairly firm under foot , i made
it was delicate , eye-straining work and when i asked , “do you think you’ll get her ?
john was leaning forward with his head on his arms .
troops and his wearing of this helmet formed in us an instant prejudice against the great authority .
grey trees and there were many kudu tracks .
of words and give him a sense of proportion , if they sent tom wolfe to siberia or to the
” “i’d love it if you went to sleep .
" " yes , " said hogan .
” “listen , ” the clean-cut young man said from the table where he was writing , “let them go
jack was on the porch writing a letter to his wife .
“what’s the difference ?
the line was caught .
then he stood up and hid the sack behind the trunk of a cedar and motioned the girl to come
it was early september and the country was pleasant .
i want you to meet my friends .
up under the roof , and nursed it tenderly .
there was always much paper about the dead and the débris of this attack was no exception .
” “very good , sir .
m ' cola did everything well in which a knife was used and he swung a panga with a fast
” nobody wanted them .
“take the wheel a minute , ” i told him .
back .
“trust schmidt .
in the cottage the doctor , sitting on the bed in his room , saw a pile of medical journals
' ' i will be .
' not thirty inches .
he is my youngest boy .
some nice italian kids i met up at cortina own it .
cola and m ' cola said , " b ' wana " .
once her licence was out and she was no longer shooting , she dropped back into non-combatant status with him
" he just wants us all to be friends , " the man who talked said .
behave myself .
from inside the ring came the shouts .
“by all means , ” said wilson .
” “but the failures .
" have some more ?
” “he won’t be around here at night .
” “no , that’s not true .
he wasn ' t a good writer like you are , was he , robert ?
” “you want to pay off the nigger ?
does damage to others .
he ' s a fine writer .
“we’ll wait .
bill came up drying his hands , his bag plump with ferns .
the door shut after them .
’ asked the officer .
“you just lay quiet .
please don’t .
he liked the pattern .
' s pic-ing .
” “let’s not go out until it’s dark .
" there is very much slave work to be done now that the fight is over .
" " that ' s a last bottle .
" horace here will bear me out that i only speak of it in the very friendliest way .
" and now the other side .
“he’ll have to feed , davey , ” his father said .
don’t worry about anything .
[_he turns to the third roman soldier who is leaning on a barrel .
there was us , who had always done it when they asked for you to do it .
is a good place to work all right make plenty money only too many oc-toe-pus .
but nothing came .
“they may shell us now , ” i said .
but i believe in it and it’s possible .
in the evening there would be band concerts under the trees across from the café marinas .
" i opened the door .
i could not understand all the speech , but it was that paco must be punished as an example ,
as i watched , a big hungarian cyclist that i knew came out of the cave , tucked some papers
chapter iii that was the day before yesterday .
i must prepare everything , then bring him in and lash him well and step the mast and set sail
i did not like it at all .
” “i hoped to christ it would not trickle out .
the wind started and the noise of the bees in them outside his window .
“i can’t , ” krebs said .
then they drank tea from the same cups .
i say this is a gloomy subject .
“is that your name ?
” so his mother prayed for him and then they stood up and krebs kissed his mother and went out
' i ' m all right again .
" good night , cohn , " i said .
many of the calf-skin-covered haversacks , stick bombs , helmets , rifles , sometimes one butt up , the bayonet
he said it was a damn fool thing to do .
“thanks for taking me .
" f---- yourself .
' i see him .
" " i can ' t , " said the girl .
about it until then .
” “don’t you think we’re going to have fun , nickie ?
" mixing up in this ain ' t going to get you anywhere , " the cook said .
" i ' m awfully glad to meet you , " robert said to bill .
could you say she did first what no one has ever done better and mention plump brown legs , flat
how it works .
mostly .
as i started to get on my feet he hit me twice .
david remembered how the elephant lost all dignity as soon as his eye had ceased to be alive and how
the picador twisted the stirrups straight and pulled and hauled up into the saddle .
the light that came in from the dying moon .
i felt almost as though i could not breathe when i saw that there really were no folders with originals
" he ' s some sort of a dane .
i’ll tell it to you sometime “wouldn’t you tell it to me now ?
“i’ve known him for a long time .
hit him half a dozen times .
i was sure the sable could not see us in the forest , nor wind us .
i turned on the taps and the water would not run .
the masai shook my hand .
“campagnero accepted a pair of varas for the death of one rosinante , with hernandez and manolo at the quites
” she asked guy .
“the express is an hour late , sir , ” she said .
" i will keep it very carefully , " harris said .
" " i get more than that for pic-ing .
then , once they have betrayed themselves , they justify it and you get more slop .
i ' m going to town .
czech legion , and the next time it was raining , and the next time it was in the dark
i know it ' s awfully hard .
" " be yourself , " walcott says .
i tell you i couldn’t figure him .
he turned his head on the cot to look toward her .
we’ve got barcelona , madrid , valencia and the basque country .
' richard .
" " i agree with you , " said johnson .
it was a beautiful country , he said .
he had never thought of that before .
they caught the rabbit and the tallest runner came up with him to the car and handed him to me
" " will you want to eat soon ?
" sherry , " cohn said .
unusual resistance to sodium pentothal .
they’ll flag them off .
“he can cook and everything .
loving was frightening .
“i didn’t catch your name .
' i will reveal .
“he’s big bluff , ” trudy was exploring with her hand in nick’s pocket .
” “am i getting soused ?
that’s the three .
he was in the ring , you know .
it was the weight of the fish and he let the line slip down , down , down , unrolling
i was walking from the woolf brothers’ saloon where , on christmas and thanksgiving day , a free turkey dinner
but you take the money just the same .
it was brown and muddy .
” “this is flying .
because you can ' t have scenes without crying , and then you pity yourself so much you can '
“one hundred and two .
then paused a moment .
" you ought to go and eat .
” “no , ” i said .
you aren’t making me any money in philadelphia , are you ?
if that’s the way you want it .
” the barman asked .
was a little piece of dead ground where they could only hit you with a howitzer , only interdicting fires
she was tall and had a smile .
some people never forgive that .
" bill said .
winded us , or heard the men , and were simply shy and kept in the forest , or what
they can write maybe , but what the hell do they know ?
there was a blue light outside the compartment , and all night the train went very fast and the american
' ' i love droopy , ' p .
” “he couldn’t hit you with a handful of bird-shot .
“oh , my god , you ought to have been there all right .
” “someone else will take it .
" ahead was a mounted policeman in khaki directing traffic .
" " don ' t stall me .
' ' please , ' she said .
" rest well , old man .
' of course not .
” “it’s a nice day , ” i said .
she’s from up where they speak german probably and she’s touchy about being here and then she’s got that baby
” the ghee was just behind him .
nick looked at her fish .
you don’t mind , do you , mister adams ?
i sat in the sun and watched the bathers on the beach .
our civilization—is it inferior to older orders of things ?
' it certainly was a lovely present , the colonel thought .
" " would i ask you if i didn ' t want to ?
no one showed from the half-track and i thought it was over and was going to wave the fifties off
the cash box to do it and now what’s happened to your mother ?
he opened them and looked up again .
it was a greased bullet and dirty and the wound infected , but he made so much noise and then
goddam puritans , " bill said .
_num_ d roman soldier—they were a pretty yellow crowd .
the spanish republic .
he had talked to her about how they would go to italy together and the fun they would have .
now here was the frozen lagoon to ruin everything .
or foreigners .
" " no , " jack said .
they thought this house was safe for you to stay today .
she had heard me whisper something but thought it was for her to come behind m ' cola .
” the negro picked up a slice of ham and laid it on one of the pieces of bread ,
" tell them about the time your horse bolted down piccadilly .
do you realize you ' ve lived nearly half the time you have to live already ?
" where did they all come from ?
“so you won’t ?
you try the high one , straight overhead and almost leaning backward , the _coup de roi_ , and splash
“and it is really the first time you’ve been divorced ?
it says it’s bad for you .
” “yes , that’s so , all right .
so you’d better go easy .
they gave me pork that was raw !
” “the clock says twenty minutes past five , ” the second man said .
” “i see your point absolutely , ” said mr .
we had been with those who lay there waiting for the tanks that did not come ; waiting under the
" " which one ?
long it seemed to reach the ground .
" " where do you think you are ?
' ' but it is too soon now .
_the open boat_ and _the blue hotel_ .
" i can ' t slide , billy .
he was letting the current do a third of the work and as it started to be light he saw
' ' they are worthless , ' the colonel said .
” “so you’d believe it .
in those days it was very dangerous and always cold and we were always hungry and we joked a great
” suzy came out when they were opening the gate in the fence .
then you could climb the bridge and cross it and go down into the market .
“i’m tired all the time .
but would you take one for a lucky stone ?
“that we could start .
we have to get the packs before it’s dark .
he wiped his hands on his trousers and stood up , then climbed the embankment to the rails .
we’ll have long baths and some drinks and a meal twice as expensive as we can afford and we’ll go
perhaps all the hills in michigan look the same but up in the car i looked out of the window
' ' _good .
" he stopped , then continued .
we knew she had heart trouble here .
so i couldn’t hardly sleep the night before a race and i knew my old man was excited , too
then spread the oil over his face , touching it very gently with the tips of his fingers .
that night after dinner we heard the flamingoes flighting in the dark .
somewhere not too far or he wouldn’t take littless .
' ' not me , ' said pop .
do you think you add to the party ?
” “isn’t there something i could do ?
" " certainly .
the bull ' s so dumb he only goes after the cloth .
do you know what part of the states ?
" i say not .
' i will say we ' ve seen a good deal , take it one way and another .
i put my head in the room .
he is my fortune , he thought .
” zurito sat his horse , measuring the distance between the bull and the end of the pic .
on the booze boat harry had the last sack over .
' this is very strange , ' the man in the tyrolese hat said .
” “i only want a shower .
" captain doctor , " one of them said .
or maybe it just seems a long time , ' the surgeon told him .
" i haven ' t changed any money here yet .
back holding the small camera to my belly , trying to keep my head lower than my shoulders , hitching
” we shook the heavy five-peseta pieces in our cupped hands ; then each man laid his coin on the
" having a good trip ?
the ring .
hernandez ran sideways , taking the bull out and away with the cape , toward the other picador .
we had lunch and were ready to start by two o ' clock .
” “my old woman keeps them so goddam clean it’s a crime .
' ' maybe not .
fell .
then we shelled it really badly before we re-took it .
” “do you want me to tell you about the other thing i did for you ?
” just then the wicked lioness sprang at him .
he reached forward and turned on the radio and tuned it .
my wife don ' t read english but she takes the paper just like when i was home and she
i ' m going to chuck the army and live in this town , very simply , on my retirement
she ' s got the flag up and she ' s walking out onto the dock .
“he fought in the first days of the movement .
" " he says we ' re punks , " tommy said to me .
' ' i got there late .
the ragweed and the fireweed dusted the girl’s hair and made her sneeze .
they called it fever and ague .
" aw , hell !
he charged fuentes ' s cape , with the canvas hanging from his splintered horn , and the crowd laughed
not even platonic .
she ' s like a little terrier .
" " isn ' t that fine !
all night .
' you bastard , ' i said in english , and he chuckled and shook his head .
" the taxi i had , got tied up in the traffic and i got out and walked .
” we watched him go over to another table .
then they decided to go to dijon where there was summer school and where a number of people who crossed
' can you manoeuvre ?
you could not rest in it .
was it me ?
he had no idea how they really lived nor how they ended .
' ' daughter , why don ' t you lay off paris ?
she was a canadian and had all their easy social graces .
hubert explained to her that he had learned that way of kissing from hearing a fellow tell a story once
stocks burned away , lay out on the heap of ashes that were used to make lye for the big
he clubbed at heads and heard the jaws chop and the shaking of the skiff as they took hold below
what a fine lovely wonderful here .
" but i must think , he thought .
' ' don ' t be surly , richard .
" it is rented .
i should have killed him ; but it was a running shot .
“no , i’ll get it .
” “somebody shot him in the back , i tell you , ” the interpreter said .
he was nice to watch on the tennis-court , he had a good body , and he kept it in
as soon as he was out of sight of his sister he changed the .
“well , bright boy , ” max said , looking into the mirror , “why don’t you say something ?
” “sometimes he comes here .
” as we passed .
” “well , we shall see .
“to shoot birds that bother the baits or to shoot sharks cruising along the keys .
jumped down into the road and dragged an indian out of the wheel rut .
the grey had turned to a yellow-grey now , with the sun , and the waves were working against the
it’s not that simple .
" " what does she do ?
" " quite .
all i wanted to do now was get back to africa .
" barnes , " he said , " have a drink .
well , when he came back to mexico from spain he got the first notice .
i heard him say that .
stephen gilch .
seeing them running and so damned handsome and so happy made us all happy .
the walls were painted bright blue and were of wood and the lamps threw their shadows against them .
i was damned if i could not have anything to do with them if i would let garrick make any
" it got all right .
the major , lying on his bunk , looking at his cloth-covered helmet and his snowglasses that hung from a
" the express is an hour late , sir .
you have to drink plenty of wine to get it all down .
” “how’s your friend cayetano ?
“‘don’t know , ’ said olz .
” “not with no whetstone , ” the man said .
” “nor i , ” he said .
but then he could break it .
" well , they ' re horses .
there was a cool breeze from the east and it blew the grass in waves on the hillsides .
making things clear is my main trade .
" whoever saw you ever buy a drink ?
“don’t you kill him , nickie .
neither do i go to mass .
christ knows i ' ve made a few and too many men are dead from when i was wrong .
" " well , let ' s shut up about it .
” “how do you mean ?
you ' re on the ball .
' ' there is one very good steak , ' the _gran maestro_ said , reappearing .
” “you better go around , bright boy , ” al said .
there’s a difference .
drive through and to see .
' in the car we turned to the right on the road , drove on up past the mud village
i ' d say you were the loveliest and most beautiful girl that ever lived .
there won’t be any rain .
' i don ' t believe i ' d be able to stand it if i really had shot it
” “you gave me a hundred , ” i told him .
like at lourdes .
' ' i did not mean it that way .
“he’s drunk now , ” he said .
" he looked in the glass .
but it would be too dangerous .
” “whose novillos ?
' asked p .
' the roman went on talking in his language .
the restaurant where they have the pool of live trout and where you can sit and look out over the
" " you don ' t have to say that again .
” “a mistake , ” he said , and changed the twenty-five to fifty .
' as far as i know .
the revolutionist in _num_ he was travelling on the railroads in italy , carrying a square of oilcloth from the
” “how did you know my name ?
i like it though .
“fly away somewhere .
and they were jumping in all directions , churning the water and leaping in long jumps after the bait .
the critic of el heraldo reached for the bottle of warm champagne that stood between his feet , took a
we knocked on jack’s door .
t make up my mind to go out .
" we couldn ' t get the wine .
” “we just have one pretty hard stretch and then a really hard stretch and then we’ll be there .
on this circle the old man could see the fish ' s eye and the two gray sucking fish that
the bartender reached a hand forward under the bar , watching us both .
we ' re the ones who are not snobs .
" " he ' s dead .
at dif erent times .
“all right , weigh him then , ” jack jerked his head toward walcott .
there has been some unreasonable weather to be frank .
they were carrying sam cardinella .
” “it’s a fine country for la chasse , fontan says .
” we came down around curves , through deep dust , the dust powdering the olive trees .
we saw his blank pockmarked face as he went by , piping , the children close behind him shouting and
she put up most of what i gave to old montoya .
gun with his right hand as he looked up from under the rim of the barrel , then stood to
he also ate alone at a separate table and he smiled very rarely and never laughed .
they can ' t pack it in dry ice .
“you mustn’t do it , jim .
' ' i think we will have a good time to-night .
the poor bloody twenty-eighth which was up on our right had been bogged down for some time and so there
last time i had dinner with him we talked about hoffenheimer .
looked up there he was right beside us .
' ' every day is a disillusion .
" rather , " said brett .
” the general was coldly furious .
" " he didn ' t look bored , " mike said .
would you mind checking the tires please ?
finally his left hand found the line and he leaned back against the line and now it burned his back
he was sitting there holding onto his belly where the rod butt had hit him .
“it is very interesting and important , the misunderstood gaiety coming in contact with the deadly seriousness that is here
they met and brushed very lightly , sweeping from side to side , losing nothing of the lovely outer screen
" " i guess it isn ' t any use , " he said .
it ' s damned useful sometimes , " brett said .
” “get him out of here , ” doctor wilcox said .
and i can write the stories , he said .
many of the bettors had asked for a draw because they had to go to work on the docks loading
” “just as you like , ” his father had said .
” “i had a good sleep .
pinin was flushed and moved differently than he had moved when he brought in the wood for the fire .
could not see it looking into the water , though .
nick could not check it , the line rushing out , the reel note rising as the line ran out
but i killed the shark that hit my fish , he thought .
the childish , drunken heroics of it .
" i do .
when i went back into the inn the woman was down in the kitchen , and i asked her to
on the whole he had liked germany better .
" " have a glass , too .
" " of course you ' ll be a saint , " mr .
” liz asked .
i knew nothing about them , neither whether their eyesight was keen , like a ram who sees you at
nick sat up and lit a match .
, doing things that had to be done before we could go .
never tell anyone anything again .
the woman sent a girl up-stairs with us to show the room .
“let’s eat somewhere simple , ” guy said .
" " lie down a little while , nicolo .
" " when are you going ?
” the original waiter said .
roussel in america ?
" so at one o ' clock this morning , " doc fischer said , " we received the youth
we aren’t either .
so nice .
it is unlike the smell of a regiment , which may come to you suddenly while riding in the street
and wood ticks under logs where sometimes i found angle-worms that slipped into the ground as soon as the log
he side-stepped , swung the cape in back of him , and pivoted , so the bull followed a swirl
" the other porters nodded .
“on peut looker .
” “you don’t get tired of walleyed pike either , ” nick said .
the moon was high now and he wondered why there was no drumming from the shamba .
schweppes indian tonic water .
" and that the pain stops .
' ' tell me about the town .
“i loathe the sight of him .
he lifted some sea water with his left hand and put it on his head .
over and around the new damage .
i was just standing up for the tricycle .
" " i don ' t mean for you to pay it , " jack says .
' we have to play it .
he got up from the floor and reached for the whisky bottle .
an inside pocket of his old military coat .
they won ' t , though .
i was glad he was not there , because he would have been a great worry to me .
it was getting dark and he had rigged a piece of canvas behind the little fire so that it would
they knew how garlic could be used to produce certain effects which could absent a man from an attack and
your father doesn’t care what you start in at .
” “i’d lose my licence for one thing .
that ' s just a noise heard off stage in my heart .
then kept on until the earth was mud and washed them out and you had to bury them again .
would start for camp .
" oh , darling , i ' ve been so miserable , " brett said .
he walked down the shady side of the steep street toward the puerta del sol .
" but he seems calm , he thought , and following his plan .
' ' i ' ll hunt them , pop .
patted him on the back .
what ' s the matter with that ?
they got the safe out with dynamite .
steinfelt was standing up .
nick , who stood on the shore holding the rod and letting the line run out from the reel .
” “the adjutant is at the cable railway , ” said the sergeant .
he went back to rowing and to watching the long-winged black bird who was working , now , low over
at the horse , and zurito , far out , on top of him , holding him , holding him
of me is his .
glad everything’s so good with you .
borderers are not trusters and the colonel knew about this and expected nothing from anyone that they did not have
stop talking nonsense and lock up .
' ' the next morning , we were informed that the germans had strong points at various places , and
they were having quite a time .
” “oh , he’s not so interesting .
“i do not want to see .
" i was pretty well through with the subject .
if a trout was touched with a dry hand , a white fungus attacked the unprotected spot .
he has to watch it now to catch it just right , " she smiled .
” “oh , ” he said .
” “don’t worry .
” “yes , comrade , ” said baldy .
manolo designed a series of acceptable verónicas , ending in a very belmontistic recorte that earned applause from the regulars
' ' quite .
“who the hell do you think you are ?
the nearly full-grown calf .
difficult .
" ring for some beer , bill .
it was a good bull-light .
they were scattered on the bed .
green stop-and-go traffic-signal , and the crowd going by , and the horse-cabs clippety-clopping along at the edge of the
examination that he had to take the day before he came down to venice for this shoot , he had
” “but you killed the moose and you sold the trout and you killed what they took from your boat
on a high bank under a tree , and i always ate my lunch very slowly and watched the stream
and we drove down the center to avoid sending the mud on to the men going home from work .
“i don’t want it , ” she said and at the doorway we all stopped and let the steel-hatted man
it could not have been made more than five minutes before as it was sharp-edged and the dirt , that
" " good-bye , " said alice .
the damp houses of the sea city .
then a card from budapest : " jake , budapest is wonderful .
“so long , jerry , ” he says .
then the open sea .
but , thank god , they are not as intelligent as we who kill them ; although they are more
we all went upstairs .
“get on the blood spoor .
" " let ' s get out of here .
before the waiter brought the sherry the rocket that announced the fiesta went up in the square .
i felt very badly to go off like this with no explanation to him .
but when droopy saw that i meant to go off and leave him there rather than simply allow him to
i can ' t even shoot .
the captain paravicini , acting major , thinner and more english-looking than ever , rose when nick saluted from behind
ask those bastards .
he was jovial to excess and laughed constantly with and without provocation .
“pull back that quilt , will you , george ?
“you know how i beat them ?
' he ' s telling him not to show off his speed .
' ' will you have a drink ?
so we drove on , and finally were on the road coming down-hill toward the outlying houses of the town
to switzerland a day ' s wait a natural history of the dead wine of wyoming the gambler , the
“it’s baldy , ” said one of the crap shooters .
far end that were not repeated when the girls asked to hear them .
” “it’s such a long way .
” “lend me your apron , ” said paco .
” the one blonde looked at the other and shook her head .
" " i know it , " the boy said .
there must have been fifteen fiats and i wanted to get completely clear .
" that was nice , bright boy , " max said .
evans .
' we fought along here when i was a kid , ' the colonel told the driver .
righteousness and pontius pilatry , and the always-dirty desire to see how people act under an emotional conflict , that
and you never know if there’s going to be anybody behind you when you get there .
we ate at tables set out under the arcade .
' ' hey , m ' cola , ' i said .
to me like these just straight ordinary madonna painters were sort of a manifest , say , of this whole
johnson bought them .
i come now from organizing recruitment of the natives .
to bring the rifles .
other for fear we would laugh .
but you could obtain nomination through your father ?
and then each of us write down what we saw .
he smiled happily , remembering the old days .
gritti palace hotel , into the light and warmth of the lobby .
my own room was locked and i could not find the key , so i went up-stairs and slept on
” “december , ” said the sexton .
i guess i’ll be reading about you in the papers .
“have a cigarette , ” he said .
so damned crowded .
until the time comes when you have to fight to keep the world so it will be o .
the hot weather had swollen them all alike regardless of nationality .
through the woods .
" these bull-fights are hell on one , " brett said .
across the river in the swamp , in the almost dark , he saw a mist rising .
but you had better stay on as my servant .
that ran down through the centre of the meadow , across its rocky shelf , and up the grassy bank
let him think i am more man than i am and i will be so .
pans .
someone tried to tell me you were at college .
a trench had been cut along the open side of the hut , and each clear day the sun ,
" " how old do you suppose he is ?
, and all clearings in the bush for game , we drove to the westward .
the snow with their lances .
or so of drinks .
" " you ' ll left-hand him to death .
" your wife ever see you fight , jack ?
" no , " said the porter who had ordered sportsman .
" connais pas , " georgette answered .
it was hot enough so that it felt good to wade in a cold stream , and the sun dried
the critics have made them impotent .
" she is a fine woman of great intelligence and sympathy .
charge as many times as you want .
it was all a nothing and a man was nothing too .
“help me not to talk if they take me , ” she said , her mouth against the weeds .
tipping his hat .
i got a guy here on board , some kind of a stool from washington .
” “instead it’s like it will be tomorrow .
” “are you hungry , nick ?
“i found you and then all we ever had to do was eat and sleep and make love .
i ' m quite sure mummy will understand .
i didn ' t hear the first bellow .
it’s locked .
” “you think that i’ll take anything .
the mountains to pamplona .
' ' i don ' t , ' the girl said .
snapper line and made a couple of good big pieces fast to mr .
" we can ' t get in , " i said .
" " you talk it fine .
that is that .
gave one to each girl .
manuel passed the muleta in front of the bull ' s black muzzle .
scythe-blade of his tail go under and the line commenced to race out .
colonel ' s sight and will have some fun .
it came quicker than i thought it would .
we sent two bottles on with mr .
“take her in now ?
i heard pop ' s title and i thought it was that pop would not like it .
“you’re drunk .
" " all i say is you never had a mother , " i said to him .
he already owned the hotel .
he nodded his head and smiled .
i noticed when he quit firing .
“little boys always know what they want to do , ” he said .
just then the stern line came taut under his foot , where he had kept a loop of the line
it ' s a long way too .
the world’s fair in st .
" " i thought they were going to have chaves and hernandez , " the waiter said .
but she just shook her head .
they ' re mad about it in new york .
that was about the first funny thing .
' ' perhaps , ' the waiter said .
” “some .
grabbed me and held me and two big stretcher-bearers were going out after my old man and around on the
' ' we could in the dark .
" " this isn ' t simple .
nor , he thought , you son of a bitch , did you ever oppose it .
not only can you outsleep anybody i’ve ever known and have the best appetite i’ve ever seen linked with a
the next thing , they will parade the twenty-eighth division through .
" " should we talk about africa or about baseball ?
you must not feel badly about them .
“i feel it still , ” she said .
he lit a cigarette and offered me the package .
' we ' re having a swell time , aren ' t we ?
i had been shot and i had been crippled and gotten away .
” “they’ll be dead then .
' ' as your physician .
the dolphin look greener from there and you can see their stripes and their purple spots and you can see
he saw his hand was trembling .
the rod cost me forty-five .
no one being in sight , squatted low , and looking across the river from the bank where you could
ten miles and it was in the time of their mating and they would leap high into the air and
let us rejoice and believe and give thanks .
an officer and not a gentleman .
she did not sob nor turn her head away .
" if i feel this way my heart must be broken .
karl was gloomy again .
he came up in a rush to the surface , feeling water in his eyes and ears .
the jagged end of the tiller would fit in the slot of the rudder well enough for him to steer
" and a quarter litre of red wine , " the sexton told the girl .
' this one .
the beer and drink it .
for this , that now was coming , he had very little curiosity .
" " no , why should i ?
through the open doors of the shops .
" you mustn ' t get what i have .
john thought .
other things i liked to watch but they were what i liked to do .
” “you don’t like italian roads ?
“that’s so .
a single mule was hitched to one of the cages and dragged it up against the gate in the corral
” “c’est vrai , ” fontan said .
” “mermaids don’t marry , ” kate said .
it has something in it that keeps you from getting excited .
" i swear to christ i ' ve never been anywhere like this , " he said .
i stood there and looked at the painting inside the persian box and noticed the curious over-proportion of the parts
there was smoke from many tall chimneys—coming into marseilles , and the train slowed down and followed one track through
” “let’s please go into the shade , ” margot said .
than he could afford to lose that year , and when he paid coming down the stairs , i remembered
“sleep well ?
after he got on crutches he used to take the temperatures so luz would not have to get up from
into the stream .
” “you know it doesn’t bother me , ” she said .
” “i never heard of it .
" " it ' s no life being a steer , " robert cohn said .
dozen bottles of mumms .
a bottle of hatuey beer brought it up to a quarter .
we had roast young suckling pig and drank rioja alta .
he’s all square .
” “and the number containing the panorama of the volcanoes of alaska ?
still we thought they had brought him for a visit , and all of us who had not been to
” “that’s good .
on the train from padua to milan they quarrelled about her not being willing to come home at once .
” “yes , the wife was here with the police this morning .
he had great poise and dignity and seemed to be very intelligent .
“they like me , ” hernandez said happily .
don ' t you know we ' ve revived them ?
” “don’t you think it , ” joe said .
turner watched him .
' ' well , to-day ' s the day .
" that cohn gets me , " bill said .
' i held out the flask .
shook his head sadly .
he don ' t look good at all but he never does much work in the ring .
the creek has to come from somewhere ?
they sat side by side on the bench .
“it’s the biggest small stream i’ve ever known , ” nick told her .
it was me .
" then the line would not come in any more and he held it until he saw the drops jumping
he was gone and the old man felt nothing .
" " did she leave a card ?
it was a hot day .
summer , i was unwilling to make the experiment .
” “it’s pretty damned awful , ” he said .
out of that one ?
mountain and in another fine valley saw the place where the other b ' wana , b ' wana doktor
you’ll never know .
“what about a drink ?
lots of it was lovely .
you know him .
the flat , as soon as my husband comes in to hold down this dirty loge i will go upstairs
" " maybe he thought that would make him lord ashley .
i was watching the man at the table .
they were all connected .
" " we know all that , bright boy , " max said .
when they have made enough to go home they leave , bringing out their poor relations to take over from
his neck muscles lifted in a great lump that is called in spanish the morillo and this morillo lifted like
over the back of the front seat .
wind hits it , his legs tight together , the muleta trailing and the sword following the curve behind .
brett started to lift the glass mug and her hand shook .
he could not make out which the young gentleman and his wife understood the best so he was being bilingual
then i held my breath to watch them .
came again as he swung the cape slowly .
they were coming down fast .
let’s not quarrel any more .
” he started to dump it and it was hard work one-handed .
my legs are all right .
" that moron , " said harvey .
faces are pictures , too .
“turn on the light , ” i said .
pass to get by the concierge so he could come up and see me occasionally in the evenings .
nor was it intelligent to think old infantrymen would not fight this early in the morning against the simple odds
the lumber schooners came into the bay and were loaded with the cut of the mill that stood stacked in
this is the start all right .
" but what about the eighty-seven of your great record ?
" do you want a drink of any kind ?
“it’s all right to talk to you .
she was cold and miserable and everything felt gone .
' we ' ll look for you when we see you .
when his voice had still been the same in the ring as in the cafe , and how he sighted
" " no , a beet worker .
i’ll wake you up for the medicine .
he had too much paper-work to get through .
it was the way the kitchen smelled when they were baking .
she had used lipstick to make the sort of mouth she knew he most desired and she had said to
” he lies there , his eyes are open now .
” “all right , ” manuel said .
behind them came the jingle of the mules , coming out to go into the arena and be hitched onto
you’ll hit a town about two miles up the track .
i’ll see you in the second-growth wood lot in back of the hotel where the big basswood is .
please , ' he said .
” “no , ” my father said .
“were you talking all that time ?
" " there she is .
maybe i ' ll have the luck to bring the forward half in .
" " shut up , " cohn said .
" she went back into the house to get some beer .
” “spanish lieutenant ?
” he lifted the egg that was left in the pan with the pancake turner and put it on my
“what were you going to do ?
nor about any of them .
like to trade him out of some of them .
, ” i told him .
arm , held half-way down , the triangular iron point facing the bull .
“take good care of yourself .
' ' in case of any unforeseen contingencies would you ask her to have the portrait picked up at the
“i have another son killed .
then nick cut across the bay .
” “will you register , please ?
” “that son of a bitch came in here last night and got himself a pack load of grub .
cheap at the price .
his mouth dry , his heart down , nick reeled in .
he was choking me and hammering my head on the floor and i got the knife out and opened it
" come on up to the lilas , " i said .
' ' it ' s loose , ' i told him .
to soak and he put them on the fire now to stew .
i heard his taxi stop and went to the window and called to him ; he waved and started up-stairs
” he whispered to me .
there was no way that captain willie adams could know that this man was regarded as irresistibly handsome by a
" i poked my finger along under the fold that was fastened down , spread it open , and read
” “i mean were your college days the happiest days of your life ?
the taller of them spoke to me in french .
“they’re nice and fresh .
' i don ' t know why we let her come .
his mouth was clamped shut .
he was class president .
i put it in my pocket .
bull hit .
" you all ready ?
ad did not answer .
" he raised his chin up and pulled it from side to side .
" we walked out across the wet grass and onto the stone wall of the fortifications .
he was middle-aged .
" if he is to lose everything , he should not place himself in a position to lose that .
the necessities in for the making of camp .
it’s the puss moth you know .
' like ' was the word i wanted .
he did not want to be carried on people ' s shoulders .
i mean good every day and dull good .
he felt it through the door .
i could not expect to kill them , he thought .
he opened a box of shells .
there was dark blood on the short grass that the gun-bearers pointed out with grass stems , and that ran
i could get it in the morning .
none of those spiders take drugs either , he thought .
” “he hung himself with a rope .
” “we’ll go , all right , ” george said .
' ' all , ' she said .
catsup spread , two fried eggs and the warm promise-keeping coffee .
' they ' re frightful shots .
each time he let the bull pass so close that the man and the bull and the cape that filled
eyes open .
the true grasshopper is small and green and comparatively feeble .
what are you looking at me like that for ?
" the american lady admired my wife ' s travelling-coat , and it turned out that the american lady had
i spoke to him about the mantegnas in milano .
the truly big picture .
she is too conceited ever to be sad , and she married me to advance herself in army circles ,
the country club .
he has aroused neither love , hate , dislike , fear nor suspicion .
" nothing , " franz shook his finger .
big trees , and off ahead down the stream when m ' cola pointed up the hill on our right
george pulled a little thing down and the numbers disappeared .
they stuck way out .
" manuel asked retana ' s man .
do you remember now ?
" " you want those big ones in the irati .
” “did he take all your groceries ?
” “what’s the matter with you , boy ?
i complied with this request and entered as slowly as i could .
“oh , yes .
with the tent unpacked and spread on the ground , the pack , leaning against a jackpine , looked much
the bartender didn’t say anything .
he started to get to his feet and commenced to cough .
not like this girl who slept as though she were awake and alive ; except she was asleep .
” “you hear what the reporters said about him ?
jack would finish up with the weights and the bag and pull on the gloves .
” “i’m coming down .
husband who would go with me , we keeping in the timber and grading up our side of the valley
i could not see his face clearly under the hat , but it looked badly marked .
anyway a liar lies best when there is a little smoke or when the sun has set .
five or six , i guess .
sing wouldn’t make any complaints .
“get them off the road quick , ” i said .
' ' may i call the gritti ?
“sergeant , ” said the little man .
’ “‘but i did , ’ she said .
but do not even think rough , he told himself .
” they were driving slowly along the high bank of the stream which here cut deeply to its boulderfilled bed
[ _num_ ] the reader ' s indulgence is requested for this mention of an extinct phenomenon .
' he held her as close as he could and he tried to think about nothing .
i ' ll never travel on a _rapide_ again at night .
brett came in and sat on the bed .
" i can ' t stand him .
many people in hailey who owned radios protested about the hospital’s x-ray machine which ruined their morning reception , but
the barman was at the far end of the bar .
pretty soon they would come to the big osprey’s nest in the dead cypress tree .
he ' s reserving himself .
it was huckleberry pie .
churchyard .
' you must be an old timer out here .
i seen him like this plenty of times before .
what would we do to a nigger ?
he did not feel like going on into the swamp .
nigger went home with us in our car .
they started to walk up the hill toward the town .
in it and a hole in front you couldn ' t put your little finger in and a hole in
george gardner was riding him and they moved along slow , back of the old guy in the gray tall
” “they’ll kill him .
” “we live in a different pan of the country .
“yes , ” i said .
” “like a wild boy of borneo .
shot looking possible , i sat down , slipped my arm through the sling and as he looked up and
the natives had carried on his head produced , in its straw casing , a bottle of german beer ,
when the wind died down .
' it ' s such a sad sound .
flooded ground holding the rifles high until they fell with them in the water .
when the sun was up he sighted a tanker coming down the gulf and she stood up so high and
he is an old client .
then the writer must be intelligent and disinterested and above all he must survive .
' st mark ' s square is where the pigeons are and where they have that big cathedral that looks
" monsieur a soif--moi aussi .
" don ' t think about the wine .
the muck more do they want of us ?
you have to last .
and we decided to head for camp .
and thank you for not asking me for more war episodes .
the line showed clearly on the top of his brown head and back where the brain joined the spinal cord
” “keep your drawers on , comrade , ” said baldy .
couldn ' t kill that many .
that karl ' s had been a little one , a nothing .
” “i was just thinking about you .
in the night sharks hit the carcass as someone might pick up crumbs from the table .
” he kissed her breasts and she said , “be awfully careful when they’re so cold .
' faro , ' he whispered and put his hand palm open on the side of his head in the
' ' why do you look sad now ?
, ' it ' s like galicia ' .
he held the bag out there , the wine making a flat , hard trajectory into his mouth , and
you can ' t blame them , now .
' ' don ' t let ' s talk about it .
the grass and the grey trees .
he did and it was pale and cold like the wines of greece , but not resinous , and its
" " is she a little crazy ?
“said i smelled too bad .
” “if you think the logs are stolen , leave them alone and take your tools back to the camp
” there was plenty of blood .
” “no , daughter .
” “i can give you any kind of sandwiches , ” george said .
he was a company commander in the fifteenth brigade who had been buried by an airplane bomb which had killed
“ship chinamen never come back .
know impersonally you have written in that way and those who are paid to read it and report on it
not necessarily in that order .
army khaki tunic , complete with buttons , that had originally been brought out for droopy , who had been
light of morning ?
“no need swim , ” i said .
“do you hurt that bad , wesley ?
” she called .
' we go to camp , ' i said to m ' cola .
and got up cursing and seeming barely able to lift the head as i shone the flash ahead of him
i wouldn’t be upset or worried about the progress that boy’s making for a moment .
i’m going to sew up the incision i made .
and please stay with me always now .
empty a minute before , that the waiter , holding the bottle high up over his head , could hardly
” “and you will stay here now for a little while ?
michael ' s trying to get his mother to put up for it .
“oh darling , ” she said .
i don ' t believe it was a bull , ' he said .
it was now ten o’clock in the morning .
on a trip , pleased about how comfortable her boots were , we came finally to a thicket of thorn
brett was wearing a basque beret .
pas vrai , onie ?
“you understand it all about his wife ?
haven ' t bathed even .
like the little pig we we we all the way home .
each bull was worth over one thousand dollars and after they had fought the great bull they were worth less
” “i’m shot , ” he said .
you leave behind ?
the girl who took our order put her arm around guy ' s neck while we were looking at the
" " i am sure .
“what’s really the matter ?
" will you shut your mouth and get us out of here ?
" we ' re going to kill a swede .
" " you haven ' t seen me lately .
the bull was hooking wildly , jumping like a trout , all four feet off the ground .
his father was as sound on those two things as he was unsound on sex , for instance , and
he rolled himself in the blanket and slept on the other old newspapers that covered the springs of the bed
he was middle-aged and she was young and wore black .
much , only the lake , and factories and a fine smooth road along near the tracks .
m ' cola took some dead leaves and crumpled them and tossed them up .
“oh , don’t be fresh , ” she said .
what would become of fellows like odgar and harvey and mike and all the rest ?
” “that was his wife .
' ' please let me ride to the garage .
" " her name ' s lady ashley .
you don’t mind me talking when it doesn’t make completely good sense do you ?
inn and talking it over .
and tortugas when she struck on the quicksands .
“i went for a walk up by the indian camp .
“i could see how it had been .
or you can’t be at them the minute they start .
at the table there was another woman who had hair three times as white as hair can be , the
as you saw them standing close .
' ' has m ' cola ever seen one ?
' there are no pitted folk about ?
lady ashley .
" come on in , hogan , " he says .
" " were you there in the fall ?
his home town , and he wanted to be the big , generous matador with a fellow townsman .
that ' s the best and lightest small marine engine i know .
“if you want something extra , ” retana said , “go and get it .
now , without thinking further , he would go home to his room .
" the count called .
, and then we took cherbourg .
' here it is , ' the colonel said when he swung the door open .
” i looked out of the window to see canada but all i could see were railway yards and freight
shoot him again , " trudy said .
" " oh , went out , of course .
i said i’d go anywhere you wanted .
and then brought it on again as he drew the other foot alongside his knee in order to rise .
they were just slow thinking it out .
then he leaned over and picked something out of the ashes .
robert cohn got up from the table and said he would go to the station .
" doesn ' t get us a table , though , " bill said .
' ' let us skip him , ' the girl said .
i saw the cottage through the trees with the windows shuttered .
' ' up in the hills , ' he said , making a quick decision .
he arranged the shooting stool so he would have the maximum swing to left and right , opened a box
packard ?
' he said to the waiter , who had swung the door wide so that the colonel , now entered
rapidly he mixed some buckwheat flour with water and stirred it smooth , one cup of flour , one cup
i was through with fiestas for a while .
now we were coming home to where they were waiting .
“i am a humane man .
' now , ' said pop , ' we ' ll let droop go ahead and see if he can
get on into town and take it easy .
" " much yuletide cheer ?
i ' m not lonely .
we had a bet , more than i could afford to bet , and i believed a good deal more
" but maybe not to-night .
" " oh , you always have some one in the trade , " brett said .
" take me to your company commander .
“the giants are too big for the league .
internally he had been moulded by the two women who had trained him .
“and you don’t mind my telling you i made up stories ?
what a morning !
“he means he writes a book like a writer .
he waved a bottle .
” “but think of who have died—away from here—and in failures .
i said , " grüss gott , " to the priest as he walked past us coming out of the
" " may i get the sardines ?
" finally at a quarter past four we had lunch .
them as a matter of discipline .
“it belongs to white and mcnally , ” he said , standing up and brushing off his trousers knees .
there was a little stream and a bridge , and spanish carabineers , with patent-leather bonaparte hats , and short
peduzzi went up the steps to the door of the specialty of domestic and foreign wines shop .
she liked his old , heavy face and big hands .
he always rode and i didn’t see how he would be frozen up so bad .
in a little while nick was sleeping , too .
but you should hunt for a year .
' ' should we ?
" he thinks it ' s all right .
i think they would have hunted .
a gambler of the small towns .
, he swallowed them with the martini .
” “all right , ” nickie said .
“she ordered them for dinners tonight .
“they took mine early this morning .
town and then walked down the railroad track to the bridge over the river .
what a lousy kid thing to have done .
but you’re not going to kill people and that’s why i’m going with you .
” he stood up and patted out with his right hand , his fist closed , the blade open across
four times he swung with the bull , lifting the cape so it billowed full , and each time bringing
everybody else does , though .
' we crossed the stream on a log and then another log and on the other side , half way
outside , the sun went behind a mountain and there was no more light on the wall of the hut
” “i’ll go find hogan , ” i said .
an unbroken series of events to have any meaning .
he read on .
yellow tusks that they had killed him for .
, who was a great writer .
the car , in low gear , moved steadily up through the orchard .
“listen , harry .
all the men had beards and there were three deer in the back of the wagon , their thin legs
there wasn ' t a fish .
he could have followed him one time when he had gone in from the road through the hodges’ place ,
it isn ' t all that you know .
he was very eager to walk over the pass while the weather held good .
, but their wings go to pieces in the water and they make a very blowsy bait , while the
i paid for the saucers and we walked out to the street .
” “i was never so happy in my life .
wait till you see the aspen turn yellow in the fall .
c ' est très bon pour la santé .
for him to fire at ducks that were coming to the colonel ' s blind was , in shooting ,
the water was white where his tail beat it and three-quarters of his body was clear above the water when
“why do you want it now ?
both the hands that were fastened together were on the table .
it ' s just like it was connected with walcott ' s face and jack just had to wish it
it was well ballasted and made easy walking , sand and gravel packed between the ties , solid walking .
' putting great hate into the word .
we are going to get there .
it was time someone should be coming now .
i don’t get any fun out of asking that spick questions .
will you utilize a little , brother ?
i signed it and asked him for two telegraph forms , and wrote a message to the hotel montoya ,
" " good-by , gentlemen .
” “that’s three and nine gallons makes five-fifty with the state tax .
every one took a drink very politely , and then they made us cork it up and put it away
" he asked john , turning around , his face all swollen .
" they talked , sitting their gaunt horses in the dark .
" well , " i said , " brett and mike ought to get in to-night .
the canyon ran down to the rift valley , seeming to narrow at the far end where it cut through
but you enjoyed killing the dentuso , he thought .
the way they trailed , stooped heads , pointing each dried splash with their grass stems and occasionally , when
on a bench along the wall three over-blonde girls , their hair dark at the roots , were standing on
he’s been up there , too .
a single shell came in over the ridge and fountained in the dirt and black smoke just short of the
he drank it all .
that no one understood , and with the slight light places on the straps , where stars had been removed
help it .
iodoform , carbolic and an overheated radiator .
" she stroked my head .
" i couldn ' t eat a thing .
“that makes it worse , of course .
done it .
that ' s the worst of it .
_num_ st soldier—take a chance on it .
she saw it and smiled , and leaned forward and took a long sip .
' ' their names would mean nothing to you and by now they may have written , become frightened ,
he saw the trout in the water jerking with his head and body against the shifting tangent of the line
face in the glass of the long mirror as he put on his cap .
i ' m sick of them .
it was the last day of the fiesta .
one of his professors who had said , " wilcox , you have no business being a physician and i
” “do many women ?
” “i hope so , ” he said .
it’s just like it was connected with walcott’s face and jack just had to wish it in every time .
he was still very worried and the absinthe warmth had moved up to his head now and he did not
" well , " john says to him , " jack ' s spotting you about four pounds .
the bar , which had now by skilful handling been made into a dining-room , and he said , '
“it wasn’t low , ” he said .
i went on down over the sand-bars from where i left that three-masted schooner and i didn’t find anything and
" " it is very good , " said the smallest one .
' ' i promise you , my sweet .
' bobby , ' the boatman called .
' ' they ' d bore you , ' the colonel told her .
the sea change “all right , ” said the man .
he turned the skillet upside down on the grill , drank the coffee , sweetened and yellow brown with the
the concierge stood there waiting for another tip , probably .
had blood and , climbing down , we saw it on a rock and then followed it in occasional drying
don’t you want the man who shot you to be punished ?
some fell into the crowd .
' so they held each other close and kissed each other hard and true and the colonel took the girl
they were talking about this business we’ve got now and jesus hernandez , just ribbing him , you know ,
" is it you , jake ?
he held to his left and at the end , as he rushed toward the fence , keeping his knees
shot-guns .
” “how much are they drinking ?
the sergeant looked at his face and then reached for his coffee again with his handcuffed hand .
' you better look the other way so that you will not be un-maidenly .
“you’re just a goddamned fool , ” doctor wilcox said to the boy .
" then he will turn and swallow it , he thought .
i found her .
i bled them clean and the salt water will heal them .
and the peeled logs lay huge and yellow where the trees had been felled .
kamau , the driver , was a kikuyu , a quiet man of about thirty-five who , with an old
she put her hand in the pocket of her apron , brought it out full of coins and counted out
" " anything you want me to think about it ?
' ' by god , you ' re brave as a little terrier .
' how long has it been since i told you that i loved you ?
' ' so do i , ' the colonel said .
" " bring us a bottle .
“i stop here , so you won’t get into trouble carrying passengers , ” he said .
” “he gives the others something new to hate .
“they’re too big , ” johnson said .
i’m perfectly willing to go through with it if it means anything to you .
and bergamo .
“here’s to us , ” she said and gave him the cold enameled cup and he held it drinking slowly
* * * * * the mexicans came and brought beer but it was not good beer .
” “you won’t take it , ” i said .
' he likes to carry things in the game pockets , ' i said .
but want to believe my husband most—please , please tell me what to do—i have a daughter born while her
we went into the bar and sat on high stools and drank a whiskey and soda .
riff-raff from the american consulate who have stayed on since noon .
“i can’t help it , ” said the wooly jacket man .
that isn’t polite .
” “he has very rare ideas , ” said another soldier .
old mount-to-the-head hadn ' t thought of that .
they were fighting on the ice of the road with the snow all banked up and the light from this
perhaps it was a sin to kill the fish .
“we’re all gentlemen here .
' a million men will spring to arms overnight .
” “don’t be a fool , ” nick said cheerfully .
' ' let ' s not talk about that .
time .
so blindy just checked the machines again with his hand and stood there waiting for someone else to come in
i couldn’t identify you—” the boats had drifted apart .
i’ll get it changed on the way .
his father was in the real estate business and always wanted the car to be at his command when he
how far prose can be carried if anyone is serious enough and has luck .
' they all believed it now for a moment and circled , searching , but the faith died at once
” “you bitch , ” i said .
, ordering people about when we were cutting brush and shovelling , until i was certain i would have to
” “i don’t need it , jack , ” i said .
each night .
the train crossed a river and passed through a very carefully tended forest .
the english talked with inflected phrases .
" what did you think of them ?
that is for stupids .
of the trees , of the small animals , and all the birds , to know the language and have
i don’t think we have to worry about him till they get home to evans’s .
i figured that all out once , and for six months i never slept with the electric light off .
i stood up and we shook hands .
" hogan went in through the screen door and i sat there on the porch and read the papers .
ahead now he could see the white of the la concha hotel , the wireless masts , and the houses
buon dì , arturo !
' ' is that why you are not a general now ?
" to hell with that stuff , " hogan said .
” “dead at teruel .
“you’re going good , ” zurito said .
” “what ?
the car was standing out in front .
” “take a look at enrique then , ” said the lieutenant .
” i did not say anything .
the water was cold and made his eyes ache .
” “i guess so .
” “but you are with us .
so if you have loved some woman and some country you are very fortunate and , if you die afterwards
at the tables .
oh monsieur , she said , madame is beautiful and amiable and tous le qui’il y a de gentil but
" " maybe it will get better .
he felt , though , that he might augment the lunch with his sausage and share it with the poler
“the lot the duke sent me for sunday will make a scandal , ” he said .
only preparing the best way to be overrun .
got it all at zelli ' s .
” “no , it is not , ” agreed the waiter with a wife .
' that ' s your rich coast in fish .
" " no , " says jack , " i got the insomnia .
“please kiss me now before the boy comes back .
probably they were even more worthless .
and then ran toward the barrera for a new sword .
” the lady took my hand .
and scored for turpentine .
harris was there and the three of us walked up to roncesvalles .
' ' mine is a decanted flask of the valpolicella .
" let us not doubt , brother .
” “you remember what i said about the shooting , ” mr .
seeing the buffalo still on his feet , and going out of sight to the left in a climbing run
so they bought a drink and then we bought a drink , and then they slapped us on the back
_num_ d soldier—no , i ain’t tried it .
this sore throat was from being in the water so much .
" let ' s see that bottle , " he said .
i’m going to get some sleep .
" we walked along under the trees that grew out over the river on the quai d ' orléans side
around noon i’ll get up .
" " you ' re too damned smart , " doctor wilcox said .
' ' but do you really prefer the gritti ?
“why don’t you use your nose ?
” ‘i give only the name , rank and serial number .
he is not the villain .
come on back to hogan ' s .
“don’t thank me .
picturesque such as we were experiencing .
ice to pick up birds , that is altogether too bad .
one to worry about and no responsibility except to perform something you feel sure you can perform , and i
both his arms were around the pillow .
and fool people , but it didn ' t have any effect on people that knew anything about him .
i can wait as well as another .
' ' your miserable boneyard .
' ' do you see now why i lore you when i know better than to do it ?
" brett came up the stairs .
" " will you be in paris ?
did you always know it was so flat and dull ?
she extended her hand to the _gran maestro_ lightly , and fastly , so that it darted as a rapier
you might get back into it again .
hose who sprinkled the gravelled square and watered the streets .
the three of us walked along , past the ayuntamiento with the banners hung from the balcony , down past
he was from new york by way of chicago , and was a rising new novelist .
the rope down for jack to go through .
we crossed one ravine that came down to the stream , going into the thick bush to be out of
keep your head down and do not move even your eyes .
“you can get that at six o’clock .
i shot again and raised a little column of water behind him , and shot again as he went into
“very badly , ” i said .
still done , and passing were the white walls and many windows of houses .
” his sister asked .
“can you see the sheep on the hillside toward the point ?
“i’m going to pitch .
they ' re polack catholiques .
he went out into the kitchen again .
“what will yours be , tom ?
he and mrs .
the streets feel as though they had just been sprinkled .
i ' m now going to get into the large back seat of this god-damned , over-sized luxurious automobile .
take harris .
m ' cola had looked at the rhino dismally , shaken his head and walked away .
i’m getting as bored with dying as with everything else , he thought .
but those were the old boys .
but the colonel could see the beautiful winter plumage on his breast and wings .
” “let’s think it out , ” nick adams told her .
and even appreciate it more .
” “don’t you hate it ?
" " with a homburg hat , " said nick .
as the american girl passed the office , the padrone bowed from his desk .
now don ' t think of her .
' ' sure .
so what would they do to some outsider ?
chapter xxx the colonel and the girl lay quietly on the bed and the colonel tried to think of nothing
i’m going right down and pray for him .
two austrian dead lay in the rubble in the shade of the house .
“it’s not really an operation at all .
the moon runs away .
“ask the senator there , ” he nodded at my father .
we left them and worked very carefully ahead , well back in the timber to get height .
on the next bottle i forgot and drank it all before i remembered the old man .
they feed out early in the morning and with luck we may catch them in the open .
” asked the mexican worriedly .
somehow i feel i have not shown robert cohn clearly .
he ' d look after it right away .
i was complimented by that and i know we are a little alike in profile .
his face was haggard and unshaven , and his cheeks were sunken .
“how old do you think i am ?
no , that wouldn’t have stopped them .
and that they have coming ?
the doctor ' s eyes were red and the lids swollen , almost shut from tear gas .
” “i’m not going to for a while .
nor did he notice his basically kind mouth which could be truly ruthless .
' ' you shoot them .
" come in and have coffee with us , barnes .
” nick came down the slope , holding the helmet in his hands .
it is the dead that will help me .
" the drummer chanted .
well , why doesn’t he keep his wife where she belongs ?
' ' which ?
but still quite well .
' ' i think so , too .
“take the wheel , ” i said .
she asked me if we had found the valise that had been stolen and i said no and she said
then after him the farmer’s land ends and there’s a section of cedar swamp with sink holes and you’d have
” “no , it isn’t .
" a pot of yellow rice with fish .
' ' the barone killed forty-two .
he came into the front room still with the wreath of garlics around his neck .
" they dance differently to all the different tunes .
the old grievance .
' ' they ' re terrible .
“do you want me to make a drink while we’ve stopped ?
to anyone who expected very much .
” “we can swim before lunch .
all right , you dirty , lousy bastard !
” “tell me what they were doing .
in the corner the stove was rusty and half the lid was broken off the hot water reservoir .
of the road and we were not technically prepared to cope with armored vehicles .
" nick walked barefoot along the path through the meadow below the barn .
we were sitting at the table with a bottle of wine that just wasn’t bad , you know you could
” “oh , ” said macomber .
but we’ve thrown it all away now and we’ve really thrown it away .
fine .
" " don ' t worry , " nick said .
manuel lifted the muleta at him .
” “thank you for putting the mackinaw on me .
” “you must get sleep .
“can they be this stupid and theatrical ?
it kept on such a long time after it was over was the trouble .
' ' he is waiting for you , my colonel .
indians fish it .
, the points of the bone having cut up the flesh of the biceps until it finally rotted , swelled
" watch him this afternoon .
i’d tell you if i was .
michigan only with higher hills and the trees were all turning .
' ' she ' s in the best shape of any one .
the road was sandy .
' ' you have a drink , ' pop said .
i ' m going to start now and get plenty of sleep .
” “yup .
hay la mama !
the number had been cleaned at lunch .
muletas .
“schön .
" " i wish you ' d let me pay for it .
he didn’t like this arc-light business .
” “you’d better come up and hear the game .
” “go away , partridge .
death of belmonte .
there’s not much there to go for now so i suppose luis delgado , if he had come to madrid
that the lake made behind them .
one time i was senior officer on the pier and a turkish officer came up to me in a frightful
' ' i reveal ' , the colonel said .
“he’d be better not to do any work at all , ” hogan said .
i could feel her crying .
in the seat ahead of them were two other men .
” “i remember that .
and the flotsam of palm fronds , corks , bottles , and used electric light globes , seasoned with an
swung away toward the cover of the trees as he heard a cracking crash and felt the slam of a
" you stink yourself , " the bartender said .
there was a wind high up in the branches .
it had been a very fine experience .
so his tongue rattled and lips shook like a grouse bursting from cover and the bird looked at him fascinated
keeping just below the warm surface water .
the bull , in full gallop , pivoted and charged the cape , his head down , his tail rising
seven pesetas to the dollar .
” “which one ?
' ' never , ' the colonel told her .
the negro picked him up , his head hanging , and carried him to the fire .
“hey , ” freedman says .
his choice had been to stay in the deep dark water far out beyond all snares and traps and treacheries
as good , taken a rest on the ant hill , missed the buck at fifty yards , seen him
he had been sweating heavily while he had been listening and now he was cold in the shade and the
” but when mr .
there was the cottage , the porch bare , smoke coming from the chimney .
” he asks .
the three matadors take the bull in turn after each charge he makes at a picador .
pope ?
we all watching her .
american men make the best husbands , " the american lady was saying .
“you and the bird took a long swim , ghee , ” he said .
turner .
” “yes , really .
" what can we bring you ?
“he better watch out , ” he said gloomily .
i told kamau to stop and go back and as we backed into the firelight there was a short ,
“you go around on the other side of the counter with your boy friend .
“but come straight .
of the men , besides the cook and the one who talked , there were two other lumberjacks , one
' droopy insisted it was a bull .
they ought to all draw longevity pay .
it was like putty in color .
should we answer it ?
i ' ll get the money back .
” “sent by the police to see me .
“he’s pretty bad , ” i said .
mike had one hand on the bar and was leaning toward brett , talking .
" " way off there where the mountain starts .
we sat and ate the eggs and i watched belmonte and the people at his table .
” “you talk it fine .
back at army they know such things are bound to happen .
“i’ll tell the driver to put the car in the shade .
, thick-necked , dark-maned , wonder-horned , tawny-hided , beer-horse-built bugler of a bull-elk .
” “yes , ” said the detective .
that meant nothing to m ' cola .
" i can ' t drink these rotten brandies .
sun rose and lighted the opposite slopes , seeing two kudu cows and a calf feed out from the timber
“fräulein , ” he called .
and felt her touch the glass with her own .
” “tell him to tell the truth , that he is going to die , ” the detective said .
“let’s go somewhere else .
' ' you can think about it , ' the colonel said .
” “no , beauty .
” “how do you know she isn’t married ?
that would be many runs .
the reporters’ tables and out down the aisle .
she did not know what had become of the baby or anything .
' ' my brother got killed in the pacific and the guy who was running the garage was no good
the major did not marry her in the spring , or any other time .
” “i wish you luck , truly , and with all my heart , ” mr .
' ' it is , ' the colonel said .
” “it’ll be all right , john .
then they were running back from all along the line .
the poor little fellow .
how can i remember if i am not bitter ?
" hogan asked .
his father had spread his coat over him and was sitting by him with a piece of cold cooked meat
ran the place knew that the case was hopeless .
there were quite a few people in the water and on the beach .
" the two health-farm patients ate at the same table with us .
the turn .
” “chicago .
" i suppose it ' s breeding .
" " it ought to be better out in the country than in town .
” “lean on him , manos , ” manuel said .
robert cohn was waiting for me .
sides and then his father raised his rifle and fired and the elephant turned his head with the great tusks
international crook herself and that she did not suffer from hallucinations and that she was sure she actually had such
where will you hang it ?
they all jumped and stood looking , not knowing where the noise came from .
” the old man and the sea he was an old man who fished alone in a skiff in the
and you are a fool , to do it any other way .
' ' do you think she would mind if we had a baby ?
but i would rather revere him .
bill drove roaring up the hill and turned onto the main road .
” “do you love me ?
" bill rubbed his forehead .
don’t you see our interests are identical ?
at the station the train was late , and we sat on a baggage-truck and waited outside in the dark
" there ' s a queen for you .
but someone would always stop for him because he was a blind man .
' come on .
" i looked at the two fellows that were with john .
" that boy ' s just crazy till he can get in the water , " his mother said .
“why don’t you try to go to sleep ?
” “i know about missing , ” the girl said .
" what time is it do you suppose ?
" i won ' t do it .
' very , ' said the colonel .
wife said .
' ' look at mine and i will look at yours .
the rich were dull and they drank too much , or they played too much backgammon .
say to fontan , ‘hey , sam , sell us a bottle wine , ’ or they buy the beer
the price to bayonne had been fixed at a hundred and fifty pesetas .
" " lot of money .
i am sure he had never been in love in his life .
” “why three days ago in the cabinet meeting he was talking about military affairs .
we went close to the curb to avoid a tram .
he had not even had time to be disappointed in the garbo picture which disappointed all madrid for a week
“oh darling , ” he said .
“we must have a serious talk , ” the german said .
" " it ' s good to see each other .
he did not look toward nick .
the stone paving had been sprinkled and there were damp stretches in the dust .
” “some business , ” i said .
you ' re making him feel dreadfully .
if you looked away from the forest and the mountain side you could follow the watercourses and the hilly slope
' m ' cola , ' you say and point .
' so he got me some medals , you know , miniature medals , and handed me the box ,
his original plan had been to go down home and get a job .
frazer answered .
the younger man had the same cast of features and i took him for a younger brother .
and , holding it anchored with his shoulders , he carefully felt the pull of the fish and then felt
“yes , with water .
" " with us , " said johnson , " it ' s different .
his face was white .
“put in your own water , ” he said .
” “what else have you got i haven’t read ?
finally he came with his blanket and got in with m ' cola and the old man behind .
the horse facing the bull , its ears forward , its lips nervous , zurito , his hat over his
" " there ' s a law against it .
“where you go eat ?
“a bottle of sion , ” nick said .
all had the back-curving horns .
i ' m pretty sure she ' d like it .
' ' i ' ve only had two good ones so for .
they didn ' t instal shock-absorbers in this vehicle we ride in now .
” the girl smiled brightly at the woman , to thank her .
the brother led the way through some heavy brush that soaked us all ; then through the open forest ,
odgar would kill himself , nick thought , if he knew it .
' ' cipriani has not come in , ' the waiter said .
then one year there were no more logs to make lumber .
' we ' ll have just one , ' i said , ' and then we ' ll _bathi_ .
he wriggled his toes in the water , in his shoes , and got out a cigarette from his breast
she was very excited .
he looked toward the clock .
the martinis were icy cold and true montgomerys and , after touching the edges , they felt them glow happily
in the world is the same country and all hunters are the same people .
those bastards can’t be as stupid as they act .
his hand .
" " there is no such fish if you are still strong as you say .
all right , conscience , he said .
it is dangerous .
' some of our places he couldn ' t get under the bridges .
did you ever hear him explain it ?
je sais que monsieur travaille comme un sourd .
dutch painters , whose names no one remembers , who painted , in perfection of detail , all things you
tired through to our bones , drinking whisky and soda and talking .
robert cohn was angry .
brett put her hand on my arm .
" the other porter shook his head .
“you going to kill yourself , ” the nigger said .
how do you think he stabbed him , doc ?
it does not bother me .
who cares if he is a damn bankrupt ?
” “i’d like to , ” macomber said .
steel lock of his resistance , and the triangular steel point of the pic ripped in the bull’s hump of
steinfelt and morgan were dressers .
the waitress filled the four glasses .
we both felt good because we had made droopy do the calling off and i was relieved as well .
i never take a drink before an attack .
now you look beyond torcello you will see the lovely campanile on burano that has damn near as much list
there was a log house , chinked white with mortar , on a hill above the lake .
that is if blowing things’ heads off is lovely .
i couldn’t see who it was , but in a minute the horse was up and galloping free and the
“no , ” manuel said .
' ' d ' annunzio , ' the colonel said .
” “i should imagine he would be very interesting .
“and it’s louse .
we would drink another fine together .
yes , i see .
" he ' s a great friend of mine , " brett said .
“you certainly looked sore when i bumped you .
" " did you get a meal ?
" it never makes any difference what the english say .
but perhaps you have not been here very long .
" " i don ' t know what you mean , corrupt .
we left the wanderobo-masai , garrick , the roman , and his brother with a lantern to skin out and
i only wanted a few good french friends in bayonne to make me welcome in case i should come back
“and then we ought to be there .
renata was talking to the gondoliere , her hair blowing .
no doubt .
poor kzar !
the old man carried the mast on his shoulder and the boy carried the wooden box with the coiled ,
” “i know .
“christ !
over and touched him to try to believe it .
' just then the barone alvarito came into the dining-room .
” macomber asked .
i had never put a pillow between my legs before and i had never lain with my arms around a
nick sat there his head in his hands .
hair .
it is my uniform which they find to be without grace .
“when have you got to go back to school ?
" come on , he thought and looked down into the dark water at the slant of the line .
these scenes form a fine short story in the vein of “the battler” and “fifty grand .
" " he ' s got children .
while i was pulling her astern i was waiting for something to hit me on top of the head but
they do sometimes .
her bed in the hotel montoya , in pamplona .
there was nothing but the pine plain ahead of him , until the far blue hills that marked the lake
you’re a snotty bastard .
it might spoil the color .
it doesn’t have to go any further , does it ?
she feels very badly .
” the lieutenant of artillery stood up and walked toward him .
drink to your mouth .
" i ' ll go in a little while .
the bull was motionless , seemingly dead on his feet , incapable of another charge .
" " maybe the nerve will regenerate .
my face with his handkerchief and we were standing back a little ways while the crowd was going out of
the colonel had said good-bye and alvarito had told him to come down and shoot any , or every ,
of our tents .
“kind of funny .
” “we better not talk about it .
' ' cheese , ' the colonel said .
in the meantime it was my own damned life and i would lead it where and how i pleased .
' ' titian came from up there , ' the colonel said .
that ' s a silly way to talk .
he liked to look at them from the front porch as they walked on the other side of the street
” macomber stepped out of the curved opening at the side of the front seat , onto the step and
promenade , and the big hotels with their white porches and gold-lettered names .
' ' you haven ' t told me for quite a long time .
listen , jim , i got to get this kid .
" he ' s from chicago .
' ' where are the sable ?
" " how ' s your jaw , jake ?
he had owned good saloons in his time and run them well .
this would be a fine country on foot in cool weather but it is monotonous to drive through now .
it to be light .
into his face twice .
where i save everything .
” “how could he be a murderer then ?
' he paid the owner of the motor boat and told him that he had not forgotten about the jeep
" that son of a bitch .
have touched them before we rolled out of it .
“you are too young .
" he was good and drunk .
death in the afternoon .
it did not mean so much now because there was so much else going on and i had seen a
" and that ain ' t all , " the tall waiter said .
seats , came walking back and stood in a group talking , under the electric light in the patio .
' i haven ' t a thought but what you will .
as it turned out , hemingway’s plans for that new book did not pan out .
” “it’s more fun .
” “don’t talk that way , dick , ” the doctor said .
situation , nor their mission and they will , some of them , _enough_ , muck off as cavalry have
” “you’ll have a nice place when you go back .
he was sure the others would cheat him out of his share and i was fairly sure they would ,
seems some chap had left them to be cleaned .
' we probably killed him , ' the colonel said .
but they were not there .
flags for the fusilier , crags for the mountaineer , for english poets beer , strong beer for me .
what people !
it ' s a pity you boys ain ' t catholics .
“why don’t you lay off ?
we can leave it on the bar .
extremaduran .
i want to feel you hold me tight and kiss me .
the weedy field from the back windows of the next two houses .
this meadow to the bridge .
' it ' s your show , really .
and choking me with both hands like he was trying to kill me and all the time i was trying
i drifted over her in the boat .
' buffalo , simba , leopard .
we’ve got the twelfth brigade in the counter-attack at the argada bridge .
he poured on some tomato catchup .
" what ' s the matter , manolo ?
“as you know there are many dishes .
' ' anything , ' the colonel said .
on littless’s side .
but it is always so quiet when the gold fish die .
six miles .
" " you will tell them .
“it was simpler that way .
but the good part’s still there and there isn’t any passable road into it .
” “imagine a young fellow like you not to sleep .
” “speak up , boy , ” the big prisoner stared at me .
we were all friends together .
tight , she feeling very small inside the quilted bigness of the dressing-gown , and we were saying things to
isn’t there going to be any crap game ?
' we are having fun , ' the girl said .
" retana saw him looking at the stuffed bull ' s head .
” “where do you think he is ?
it was well over fifty inches .
she gives him beans en can .
we used to turn the searchlight on them to quiet them .
fontan will have the wine .
" " at the napolitain .
" " no , don ' t encourage me .
" " i ' ll not .
as we went on we saw a few thin grant ' s gazelles showing white against the burnt yellow of
you may have much luck yet .
" " we have to go , " i said .
” “i’m not too old , ” manuel said .
just then an old man with long , sunburned hair and beard , and clothes that looked as though they
about day after tomorrow we will start to make real distance and not be tired by it .
' ' but they all fought ?
” ahead now were the lights of a village where the trees were cleared away and roger turned onto a
" " how am i to know who you are ?
“mon capitaine , ” red said to me .
the colonel , being then a lieutenant , and loving his platoon , had joined with them and uttered ,
" i wanted to ask you because you were an american , " he said .
" that son of a bitch , " fontan said .
” “naturally , ” said nick .
" keep the blanket around you , " the boy said .
it would be wonderful to do this with a radio .
' ' also your love .
others were cut back .
crouched there and he could not move , or speak , he heard the woman say , “ bwana is
“i’ll understand all the time .
’ ” “then the police had to take her away because she could not control herself , ” the waiter
and we saw nothing .
the peasant did not seem to see her .
the inner doors of the armoire , the mirrored ones , were opened in such a way that he could
campbell home directly .
” “got clean sheets ?
blood pumped regularly from between the horse’s front legs .
but it was attacking in a way that could do only one thing : destroy itself .
[_he makes a lifting gesture with his two palms together .
i wouldn ' t have you do it if you didn ' t want to .
] _num_ d roman soldier—george is a kike just like all the rest of them .
' yes , b ' wana , ' he said .
" good old harris .
” “both the men are too old to trail anybody .
thirty-five yards into the grass the big lion lay flattened out along the ground .
the toes touched .
out of the range of the fire he listened .
" it was the last day of the fiesta .
” “why don’t you produce him and we could try it , ” evans said .
at the gritti does he ?
" we were sitting now like two strangers .
the guinea fowl were from africa too .
' did you hold that river ?
socks .
” “i’m glad you’re not grown-up then .
there was nothing earlier .
such a long time since we ' ve seen you .
" " come on , let ' s go some place where we can get some real beer , "
i ' ll see you later .
this hotel if we wanted a room for the afternoon only .
all he felt about salt lake city was that it was clean , but dull , and there were too
smith and about the republican party and about james g .
serve it .
he had a nice face and he did not look more than seventeen .
' ' wonderful except for the ulcers and a small cardiac condition .
“that’s dose to a fifty-inch spread .
” “any time , ” i said .
you won’t catch a cold in the wind ?
old man at the bridge an old man with steel rimmed spectacles and very dusty clothes sat by the side
_ _num_ d soldier_--he was all right .
oh , he was such a fine patient .
they are bored in this town .
“wasn’t i going good , manos ?
i thought that was the first sable but it seemed a wider swing than he had seemed to make when
" asked count mippipopolous , who wore an elk ' s tooth on his watch-chain .
but there was only the light of its slow descent .
they were always very polite at first , and it amused them very much that i should be an american
one of those women pictures would be out of place there .
he baited up , then picked up the rod and walked to the far end of the logs to get
” “violation of the game laws , ” the down-state man said .
“i’ll do it , ” her husband offered from the bed .
in the evening they all sat at dinner together in the garden under a plane tree and the hot evening
" they watched .
lighter touch about it ?
the fiesta was going on outside in the night , but i was too sleepy for it to keep me
" " that ' s the way , " retana said .
he ain’t with the others .
" you wouldn ' t draw , " retana said .
i couldn’t love you as much as i do and not know when you’re upset .
” “that is as it should be , ” said the extremaduran .
" " nope .
nobody’s going to hurt you , ” i said .
" well , " i said , " i ' m going to take a bath .
i am from valencia .
” inside the cabin there was a double bed , a table covered with oilcloth , two chairs and a
it did not have anything to do with politics .
but you can all right .
and it was against italians .
he works nights .
he did not like the hall porter since he had found him , one day , going through his bag
" " how do you want me to look ?
“now i will never be sad .
“don’t cry , ” he said .
' ' he might not have asked me because he wanted me .
around the edges the buckwheat cake began to firm , then brown , then crisp .
' ' that poor lorry .
" " how ' s the writing going ?
” “copiously .
it was an hour before the first shark hit him .
' ' let ' s get ettore and have him call up your house .
he sat on the logs , smoking , drying in the sun , the sun warm on his back ,
just for how good it can be .
as for the story of the cuban fisherman , he did eventually return to it thirteen years later when he
if you went there the way you feel now it would be exactly the same .
you see , they signed on for it .
he had a great many handkerchiefs which he laundered himself in his room and , lately , he had been
dempsey beat sharkey .
” “two grapefruits .
my father came back in the room and sat on the bed .
you can’t wear them .
i am very dull and i am sorry .
didn ' t like him .
chapter _num_ in the morning it was bright , and they were sprinkling the streets of the town , and
you cannot live on a plane of the sort of elation i had felt in the reeds and having killed
nick tucked two big chips of pine under the grill .
" " don ' t let anybody shoot you in the back .
” “how much money do you think we’ll have ?
' ' you _will_ need someone to interpret whatever they speak into swahili .
” “god looks after rummies , ” i told him and i took the thirty-eight off and stowed it down
if i had time i could make good tankists too .
and gone into a dullness that he mistrusted .
i’ll hand these out to a few people openly each year until the time’s up .
they had women at it though in wonderful uniforms .
nick’s father always assumed that this was what would happen , and hired the indians to come down from the
a hawk to those who had never hunted ; they , the three , knew better and so we drifted
" " it was excellent .
i ' ll see you all later .
“let her go , jimmy , ” my father said and i cast off the line and we started away
smith sent for glasses and liz brought them .
noise at first , then crashing in the brush when he was well away ; and we never saw him
his wife had been through with him before but it never lasted .
” “did you get the knockout drops ?
but i could find no more blood and they were all hunting half-heartedly now .
they ' d gone in wherever a car could go .
" " come at lunch-time .
for that i will not go and be a nuisance .
how ' s that ?
he ' s going to be rich as hell some day .
d ' annunzio in them .
aachen had been taken and the road into germany breached .
“when did you come up ?
it was blood and it came out very slowly and smoothly .
each cage was stencilled with the name and the brand of the bull-breeder .
i could see their hands and newly washed , wavy hair in the light from the door .
in the upper bunk was her husband .
glasses and the mannlicher , full of solids , and last the wanderobo-masai with another spear .
even here , in reserve , i have much thirst .
' ' how many times have you been hit _on_ the head ?
better hell , he thought .
' we were out in the car at daylight , out on to the road and beyond the village and
so was jefferson davis .
" " i must thank him .
but when i had a chance to look at them and think .
_forum_ writers talk to the point , are possessed of humor and wit .
mobile maybe .
others , yes .
the backs of our shoulders touch .
i remember the women going down the trail to the beach for the water with the pots on their heads
otherwise they become like writers in new york .
here it was too overgrown and there were too many vines to follow them .
" i ' ll understand all the time .
“it’s good when the fall storms come , isn’t it ?
so i forget about them and just am as happy as i can be to be with you .
street .
” “it’s coming along good now since he spliced the bone .
_wine-seller_--you drink that right down , lootenant .
we could get up a pretty good game .
" he ' ll stay all night , " he said to his colleague .
” zurito leaned forward , his hands on the table .
" oh , to hell with your bull-fighter !
did not want to leave the café .
he looked desperately along the barrel of the gun .
awful .
splashing across the stream , tearing up the bank , the roman ahead , crashing naked through the brush ,
it was fun to have people yell at you like that .
one man fell , rolled to the gutter , and lay quiet .
” “what is that kind of tonic ?
” “no , ” the waiter who was in a hurry said , rising from pulling down the metal shutters
i thought we were asking permission to go through the corn .
there ain ' t anything to do .
" i ' m going in and lie down .
i was thinking about beer and in my mind was back to that year in the spring when we walked
' good day , my colonel .
“don’t you want me to make up the bed ?
but you ought to have ice cold spring water and the cup chilled in the spring and you look down
here we had made a camp to hunt kudu which were supposed to be in the wooded hills and in
in a room off the bar there was a good jazz band playing .
” the doctor said angrily .
this was the overlapping of the pine needle floor , extending out beyond the width of the high branches .
then , seriously , “you been down there ?
he can only come , from where he lives , on skis until the snow melts .
" make it two sportsmen .
you call up anytime mr .
asked .
but each one would work for a little while .
i checked on claude and onie and red and they were all firing .
” “it’s wonderful short for swimming .
” “said what ?
with the red stripes around it .
" george asked them .
" i wish the boy was here , " he said aloud and settled himself against the rounded planks of
we ' ll just find some water .
' i figured that i ' d by-pass brescia .
he let his hand dry in the air then grasped the line with it and eased himself as much as
it plugged the mouth of the bottle enough , so the hoppers could not get out and left plenty of
he ' d move around fast enough in the ring if he had to , but he wasn ' t
i ' ll keep the change , ' he said .
” “un huh .
moved another frozen pace forward , and the lion seeing his silhouette flow clear of the silhouette of the car
” “that’s where the first bull went in .
" " you should .
" that makes nothing .
' ' i won ' t , daughter .
simpson , ” and then heard the cracker voice say , “mr .
” jim stirred and curled a little tighter .
but it doesn’t kill you .
' ' why not ?
any good any more and blindy was so strong standing by him and he looked so awful and finally the
margot is .
' ' world ' s in a hell of a shape , ' pop stated .
, ready to do battle for his lady love .
' hell of a place , ' i said .
” “good , ” said nick .
this was a pleasant camp under big trees against a hill , with good water , and close by ,
george put the bottle in his pocket .
” “do you want it with water ?
he was rowing steadily and it was no effort for him since he kept well within his speed and the
" when i make a sum of money i gamble and when i gamble i lose .
" hello , solly , " jack says .
why the hell don ' t you come out here when the reporters was out !
” “and you say such things are justified ?
it was just like this that i had come home .
his clothcovered trench helmet .
you ' ll all get bloody sick .
" i got a favor to ask you , manos , " manuel said .
” he stopped .
no gritti palace .
as he turned , he stopped for a moment and looked at the church of santa maria del giglio .
nick crossed it , his boots ringing hollow on the iron .
' droopy asked in swahili .
” “i can’t take it .
he was a dark-faced boy , and he fixed the stove , putting the pine wood in carefully , shut
he had felt quite alone but this boy had been with him .
that’s the way with drinking with your nose underwater .
but it was a fine day early in the fall .
not frightfully amusing .
it was an old smile that he had been using for fifty years , ever since he first smiled and
" he says you should denounce him , " mr .
his landing net hung by a hook from his belt .
i grabbed his arm and he pulled loose and said , oh leave me alone .
i’ve known lots of people that have done it .
it ' s expensive and dirty .
why not leave him there ?
there was a small sea rising with the wind coming up from the east and at noon the old man
” after a while he heard his father blow out the lamp and go into his own room .
in the evening was the paseo .
there was a faded purple wreath leaning against the base .
fans going in the sun .
ticks .
' jackson , ' the colonel said .
faithful to the girls they left behind them , many of them never had crabs , wonderful chaps .
" " they took about twenty chaps to the infirmary , " mike said .
i thought behind our house was wonderful .
that’s the point , ” bill said .
” “oh , he’d leave us if we blew out , ” i said .
a heavy hand fell on his shoulder .
' ' have to make a trip first .
" " you mean what a lot we ' ve drunk .
' ' well , we better not discuss it then .
" " from me , " said the smallest one , " he won one hundred and eighty dollars .
he was a nice boy , a friendly boy , and very shy , and it made him bitter .
“don’t talk that way and don’t think that way .
a regular nigger weapon .
he showed david the single hole in the big depression in the white bone of the forehead and then the
the mountain .
top of the bull-ring were solid with people .
“they used to roost much closer .
romero looked at me inquiringly .
but andy’s too young for me to marry and i love you .
“but bring the doctor .
the boy told him .
" let ' s just keep the car with us .
' hunt to-night .
" " he must be a very interesting young man .
" come on , " i said .
i never mean it when i say nasty things .
” “i get so tired of it , ” she said .
' ' nothing else ?
he was bitter about this and it was not a happy outfit .
" the best arrow-heads went all to pieces , " he said .
so about halfway home i got sick of the rain and stopped into chicote’s for a quick one .
he leaned back in the chair and looked at manuel .
“he’s writing for that meridian , mississippi , paper again .
her tea shop before he had kissed her one evening .
when they were sleeping drunk nickie got his stuff and pulled out .
wilson could tell that the boys all knew about it now and when he saw macomber’s personal boy looking curiously
madame fontan was alone .
course) .
” “but he hit it first , ” andré said .
" " oh , yes , i saw them .
" i ' m nervous .
what did you say the name was ?
so now he ' s going out and get some new material .
that would have been too slow .
they were registered under their own names .
braddocks laughing .
beyond the swamp there were dark blue hills .
snow as smooth to see as cake frosting and as light as powder and he remembered the noiseless rush the
" " why don ' t you prove it ?
he seemed very glad to see me .
” “we weren’t engaged , ” nick said .
he’ll make himself perfectly flat in cover you wouldn’t think would hide a hare .
and beyond there it ' s from somewhere else .
” “what do you want me to say , darling ?
the hell with picturesque .
” “don’t be silly .
“for you , ” said the second soldier .
” “maybe some friend of the children asking for them .
hortons bay was asleep .
' after that the roman and i had a long talk in which i spoke spanish and he spoke whatever
it is all marked in coloured pencil .
“oh , dive , wemedge , will you ?
" the lieutenant of artillery said nothing .
in her before we came across .
from him , the old man thought that a gaff and a harpoon were needless temptations to leave in a
see the horns , the boss coming far down , the muzzle out , the little eyes , the roll
you’re a detective .
" but i will see something that he cannot see such as a bird working and get him to come
" " was he very bad ?
” manolita said .
“he can hit , ” nick offered .
of the mountain and stood , looking down at the bank of clouds quilting over the entire valley below us
i moved him , he thought .
' ' a present , ' and i handed what was left in the bottle back .
" " his pants looked mighty like billy .
' ' we would sack them if they defended them , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
he was not professionally youthful .
our chance was at the start when he was down and we missed him .
voice .
then he heard a noise far off .
out drinking beer and watching the fire and all around they were talking and roasting meat on sticks .
away behind the river bank trees .
, his bill pointing at an angle .
can be useful .
“i know it , ” manuel said .
” “i am sorry for that , too .
" how do you feel , schatz ?
gas .
" alles , " the peasant repeated to the girl .
, comrade , ” said al .
“of course we can , ” he said .
' the waiter made the call while the colonel was in the bathroom .
i ' ll give you three hundred francs .
you must write about our lady .
mancelona they call it .
blue eyes with faint white wrinkles at the corners that grooved merrily when he smiled .
he had the lunch wrapped up in a newspaper and crossed the wet grass , climbed the fence and went
" i only mean it in the friendliest way , doctor , " doc fischer said , looking at his
she carried gold and they got it all .
it was a game you play , as some people used to play double canfield or any solitary card games
he saw there .
he ' d lost weight out at hogan ' s .
he’ll take it .
i do not understand these things , he thought .
" " i ' m going to fish a fly .
he did not care that they saw him crying .
“you see it is very rare .
” “tell me about it , ” johnson said .
' ' ask droop .
” we went first to the german in the road .
i can go up to the house tomorrow morning .
" the only thing is , " he said , talking toward the wall , " i just can '
" asked the lady .
' ' what are you drinking ?
well , when he makes his shot some may break back this way .
but what a diagnosis--and without the book .
he noticed the way the bull’s feet were .
' ' i ' m sick of them .
hand , sitting laughing between me and a woman with bare shoulders , at a table full of drunks .
with notes of rejection that would never call them stories , but always anecdotes , sketches , contes , etc
, the final result .
the cab passed the new york herald bureau with the window full of clocks .
' ' then let us be married at once .
but something’s made me nervous .
" " nix , " i said .
nick , standing in the door of the kitchen , had a good view of the upper bunk when his
” “i won’t .
' you could be an excellent president .
yes , and music is the opium of the people .
it looked as pock-marked and as blemished as the mountains of the moon seen through a cheap telescope and ,
i want so to be one .
his cap was down over his eyes and his feet were up on one of the chairs .
at that it was a pleasure to see her .
' he may be marvellous , ' pop said doubtfully .
" " where you going ?
that’s the way it is every night .
then , having scalped that halfbreed renegade and standing , watching the dogs tear him , his face unchanging ,
it would be fun .
" " what do they have them in for ?
there are many other sausages , as you know .
“you think it’s all right to stay with him ?
rose close to the surface at night where all the wandering fish fed on them .
” “you’re a good girl , daughter , ” i said .
he laid the log down and picked up the pan .
' ' good-bye , you old bastard .
once george had gone out to the kitchen and made a ham-and-egg sandwich " to go " that a man
” “thank you , ” said mr .
” “what’s he talk about ?
a chance of them being true .
crossing it .
" hogan said .
man who lay , quietly , on his back on the floor .
so , in the front seat , thinking of the sea and of the country , in a little while
' ' but you ' ll get one on the salt-lick in the morning , ' p .
' ' i can smell it .
a day when things are going well in la habana and in ten miles along the coast it is as
“have you transport ?
i’ll get going on him now , ” roger said and went into the other room .
“you know you have a very red face , mr .
stopped , swung forward , rose on his toes , arms straight out , and sunk the banderillos straight down
off the birdcage and hung the cage in the sun , she went back to the restaurant-car for breakfast .
' you have not received your parchment yet but i appoint you super honorary secretary .
not everyone passes every night with his wife though .
city , montana , on the day they have the old timers ' fish fry .
' ' you didn ' t talk very badly and i didn ' t believe it anyway , ' the
let us utilize the fowls of the air .
' let me kiss now .
he’s just as good as they come .
“i shot a tommy ram , ” she told him .
try and remember that .
” “he and i , ” she said , turning her head toward the english correspondent .
" " three of your countrymen were here .
the dog kept close behind him and when david stopped the dog pressed his muzzle into the back of his
" " bring us the bill , " i said .
we passed some lovely gardens and had a good look back at the town , and then we were out
“he just wanted everyone to have a good time .
“absolutely , ” said johnson .
say it again .
" al asked max .
you see we make our writers into something very strange .
" he smiled a beautiful italian smile and wrote something on the receipt stub , holding it so i could
“you line up your cuadrilla , so i can see what i’ve got .
whatever stuff they’ve got in the corrals .
a building you would see on the boat train from havre or cherbourg , coming into the banlieue before paris
i ' ve had a swell time .
' manamouki , ' i said .
the wire was a cable from bill gorton , saying he was arriving on the france .
" " yes , sir .
next day we came in from the zebra business grey and sweat-caked with dust that the car raised and the
” the negro smiled again .
so we sent three men to the roof where he had taken refuge and he was an indo-china boy .
' ' there ' s no hurry .
" then the cook spoke up .
“what do you make it ?
life of pleasant surrender .
statutes , made him his trouble .
but they had not seen the birds .
some one knocked on the door .
it was getting along in the afternoon .
" double-crossed somebody .
" i guess that ' s better .
' the hell with the road to trieste .
" " no , my dear .
' the picture was the same .
" do you know any dirt ?
“because you come running here with your tear gas to be evacuated .
' ' we cannot all be combat infantrymen , ' the girl told him softly .
but , oh , if i could only be a saint !
" the original waiter said .
' good evening , contessa , ' the concierge said .
' i whispered to m ' cola who had crawled up and was lying by me .
but i guess it is logical and as good as any other , given the difficulties of transport .
" i had picked her up because of a vague sentimental idea that it would be nice to eat with
" " then you must not say it .
earth , the puffs of shrapnel , the rolling louds of smoke and dust lit by the yellow flash and
the brother half believed in the bull , i could see .
" they let the bulls out of the cages one at a time , and they have steers in the
comfortable in the chairs and talked .
i don’t mind it .
” “not through you .
no bloody fear .
the match sunk into the gray wood , making a tiny furrow .
that would show that he was tiring .
it was a good thing it was me , he thought .
” “tell me , henry .
he couldn ' t keep him out with the left hand now .
he couldn ' t sweat .
' this makes me too nervous .
” “how are you going to get your groceries back ?
he stood smirking proudly , then turned so i could see the head-dress from the side .
" but couldn ' t you get a substitute ?
he took a plug of tobacco out of his pocket , bit off a chew and spoke in ojibway to
now he stood square on them , dully .
his desk was at the far end of the office .
it makes everything wrong .
on one of them a woman sold roasted chestnuts .
he had his cap down over his eyes .
' he really meant it .
henry was nice too .
robert cohn in jail .
" " we ' ve had a grand time , harris .
” “good night .
get some money down on walcott .
her mouth was open and when i came into the shed at night to cut up the big wood ,
“you are talking about spezia .
” “oh , shut up and get something to read , ” george said .
i could picture it .
made mine dwarfs in comparison .
, " and it was dark and there was water standing in the street and no lights and windows broke
brett was leaning back in the corner , her eyes closed .
” i asked rené .
“you shoot , nickie .
” “don’t worry , ” said paco , his voice sounding far away .
" i just got out of the hospital , " manuel said .
the train was due at ten-thirty--an hour late meant eleven-thirty .
carries ten guineas , i believe .
" they ' re not much , " retana admitted .
he said something again , and then one after another six chinks came over the stern .
they are on their way now to get him .
some things we had to do were impossible .
” “that’s too bad you go away .
bank he heard the turbulent rush of the water .
into the grass of an adjacent field ; which task being concluded , we were ordered to search the immediate
for we have been there in the books and out of the books--and where we go , if we are
robert had a little secretary on the magazine .
” “why did they do it ?
” he looked on at her back .
how did you sleep , nickie ?
get tight .
his jacket hung over the back of a chair .
hunter and he had hunted with some rare ones in his time .
' ' there is nothing broken in it and that sort of swelling always goes down .
this is a good town .
" they ' re stupid .
" " come in at the office .
you’d make some girl a nice wife , bright boy .
" zurito leaned forward , his hands on the table .
but tonight the smell of the land breeze came very early and he knew it was too early in his
” “all gone , ” said eddy .
if he was any good as a b .
” he spat in the road .
when they first start nailing him , there isn ' t none of them wouldn ' t stop it if
do you have to kill your horse , and your wife and burn your saddle and your armour ?
could .
” “one is asked to .
wolves were gone before my time ; they poisoned them out .
' i am so excited and i always say the wrong things .
“he’s off .
he never thought at all .
firm , the horse facing the bull , its ears forward , its lips nervous , zurito , his hat
“before lunch , ” jack says .
” “this wind only rose during the night , ” a soldier said .
" oh , for chrisake , " the detective sergeant said , and put his notebook in his pocket .
it was a bright scarlet under the arc-light .
his face looked strange .
there were heavy growths of trees in the valleys and grassy slopes on the ridges between , and above there
alvarito would have asked you if he wanted you .
" " i have done so .
the sun was just up over the hill .
that white boy musta ruptured himself swinging at me .
“the major wants you , ” the adjutant said .
" " you must have some .
the room and into the back of the apartment .
” “we don’t like to hear him in there with the dead .
" " said what ?
sitting crowded on the front seat of the car , the negro reached under his shirt and put his fingers
what ' ll i send them ?
“well , ” said johnson , “the subject seems to be exhausted .
” “i’m pretty sure there will be .
as children in the very early morning lying awake in bed in our own little house that marty had fixed
but there’s some pictures and stuff they’ll like to have .
“ah , harry , ” he said , “i always knew you were my pal .
a grand religion , and i only wished i felt religious and maybe i would the next time ; and
i loved this country and i felt at home and where a man feels at home , outside of where
" i can give you a nice double room for ten dollars .
“this kind of chinamen no understand write .
' in your name , ' he added .
then the two started to run like hunting dogs , one straight down over the ridge , the other at
he ' d been on plenty of operating-tables before .
' ' i ' m learning , ' the colonel said .
” his father looked and said , “suck it out clean and put some iodine on when you get home
jack just dug a little deeper in the pillow .
if he was white he’d have made a million dollars .
“you shut up too , ” i said .
' ' i won ' t .
no , he thought , it is damned fortunate and you are very fortunate .
she was sitting on a canvas chair beside his cot .
he tried it once more and he felt himself going when he turned the fish .
that’s the word for it all right .
he was a fine fish , bright silver now , barred with purple and as big around as a log
she doesn’t know .
" for god ' s sake , " i said , " yes .
the gun-bearers looked very grave .
” “if we have any luck .
he ' s wonderful .
he turned around and offered his wine-bag to bill .
" " tell him i love him .
" " what did you lay off them for ?
" " they want to get sick , so they ' ll know they ' re drunk .
" " i saw them .
browned butter .
” “i’d a damn sight rather be in town with the wife .
but i suppose that is always the way with drugs .
just tell me true and hold me tight and tell me true until you are purged of it ; if
i am not a morning drinker so i have never met them .
wild geese , or in a duck blind ; remembering the time an eagle dropped through the whirling snow to
" " je veux aller tout seul , " andré said , very shrill and excited .
zurito looked at him .
' ' i ' m not sure i wish to be an old big coyote .
" " it ' s enough to make a man join the klan , " bill said .
as we came up the ladder , walking across the grass under the trees , we passed the big ,
he did not trust garrick .
" you ' ve blinded me .
" " it ' s all on the office , anyway .
there was a runner there from our last camp who had brought a note , written before p .
to buffalo .
he put them forward on the table self-consciously .
a burst from underneath and sure enough one came down , falling toward the sidewalk with his head above the
leaving all shade behind , trailed back across the open country under the noon sun to the car .
” they were both beet workers , a mexican and a russian , and they were sitting drinking coffee in
clear of the trees and then had the sight on him , swung with him and missed .
why not .
" you didn ' t steal them ?
“get me the fish knife , ” he said to the nigger .
now if he were here we could discuss how to describe this deer-park country and whether deer-park was enough to
' ' been in france lately ?
when i started i’d feel as though i could do anything and while i was doing it i would feel
' ' not much .
i can’t wait till we see him .
pulled the bull to his knees .
” “where did your wingmen muck off to ?
there was never any action taken , although many felt it was a shame the hospital could not use their
' one big cow hit .
the two men smiled when jim came in with the jug .
i read it to him and i said i thought he had looked after it .
the undefeated manuel garcia climbed the stairs to don miguel retana’s office .
” “tell him i love him .
“i’ll get some more beer , ” madame fontan said .
right hand , and he was asleep .
a curtain hung over it .
he , with the shooting coat now full of ducks , crouches and a flock of geese pass over in
“who says so ?
' it ' s in my _num_ .
“good-by , ” he said .
it was never what he had done , but always what he could do .
i woke thirsty and was unscrewing the top from a water bottle when i heard a rhino snort and crash
sun , the rocking-horse canter of the long-legged , grotesque kongoni , the heavy swinging trot into gallop of the
but i want to save you first .
got off a good morning ' s work .
" i get tired this .
but they were both ashamed of those who had ordered that and they never thought about it except as a
' ' it ' s on the order of blood brotherhood but a little less formal .
now i think you should go .
“how do you think he likes it out there ?
you can be quite easy on that .
he was damn nice about it .
' we went on through the woods toward camp .
correct me , _gran maestro_ , if i fall into error .
at the gate of the corrals two men took tickets from the people that went in .
” “just have one more , ” jack said .
do you think they’ll go over ?
wind under the sketchy shade of some dead trees on a hillside overlooking a little stream and the mud village
but to each one it meant a different thing .
there’s one shallow , pebbly part just after she comes out of the upper swamp , he thought .
” “i suppose so , ” said the american girl .
" " i should say it is rotten luck .
” we drove into the city and i was driving .
' i was never buried there .
perhaps that ' s bragging .
” “no , i can’t sleep now .
" that way we ' ll go faster .
a man sat at a table in the corner asleep .
" i understand it .
they came into the drinking room .
” “you know i’m no squealer , harry .
we could see six , then eight buffalo , black , heavy necked , the horns shining , standing on
” “well , good-night , mrs .
breath and shot him a touch behind the fore-shoulder .
“you took a beauty , mike , ” he called to nick .
now , at the edge of the timber , there was wintergreen growing and some partridgeberries and the forest floor
the silver star is free .
we started off , droop and his spearsman in the lead , walking along the shadow of the trail that
room where i always looked at the book and it being someone else’s house and before dinner and wet trees
crossing the seine i saw a string of barges being towed empty down the current , riding high , the
perhaps he is too wise to jump .
he did not say that because he knew that if you said a good thing it might not happen .
“i’m going to give you the same four dollars a day just as if johnson had paid .
we’ve got plenty .
and i said , ' look at them , pop ' .
i saw the clearance papers in the net bag hanging up under her framed license where i’d shoved them when
i do not know where the doctor got them .
" then after a little : " where you go now ?
" just that one ?
glass from two shiny , spouted pots with long handles .
about the new house i remembered how my mother was always cleaning things out and making a good clearance .
" pour moi , " said johnson , " ça ne va pas .
' ' let ' s talk about mr .
roger i’m so happy .
now that i have touched it carefully , we can talk about funny things if you like .
they were not the ordinary pyramid-shaped teeth of most sharks .
' i ' ll see you later , ' he said to the boatman .
" " well , " he says , " like about the wife .
what we goin’ to do ?
“where would you have known gulls like the one in the story ?
" " right .
" i followed the maid ' s back down a long , dark corridor .
but tell him he ' s not running the show and to keep his bloody mouth shut .
it is more the politics of my heart than of my head .
" " you are a philosopher .
tell me , are you much of a tracker and bird shot ?
“not you , ” said the little man .
the electric light had been burning all night .
' there are quite a few things i should get .
“i’d rather not touch it .
" when the taxi stopped i got out and paid .
“now , you pray , harold , ” she said .
because he had wings on his back the other lions all made fun of him .
what the hell is he so gloomy about ?
salami , everything .
both of these were the names of mountains and they were both good saloons with old-days bars and the gambling
nick could not write about him yet , although he would , later , but the quail country made him
“it’s scotch , ” he said .
“there .
but he’s not been here .
” “i miss them all the time .
the waiter who served us was soaked through .
after the funeral every one sat in the cafés out of the rain , and many colored pictures of maera
anything , or anything .
“what about the jews ?
do you want the money now ?
" that ' s all he want do , " she said .
' ' no one listens on this phone at this hour .
up to the windows .
' no results on this but a long speech from the roman which i took to mean they were watching
and as we began to hunt kudu and pop stayed in camp and sent us out alone with the trackers
most of the people had left the table .
how’s everybody ?
i felt i must get on my feet and try and hit him .
he tried a pass with the muleta and the bull did not move .
the other two he spread on top .
" " that ' s all .
' ' all the time , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
" he ' s a great little confider .
they sauntered across the cross roads and turned to come up in the field behind the ambush .
" he lit the cigar , puffed at it , looking across the table at brett .
” “you don’t just smoke when you’re nervous do you ?
his cowardice returning .
why the hell aren’t you out here when i ought to have you ?
" " what makes you think that ?
“you’ve never lost anything .
' mama hit , ' m ' cola said .
" " well , " i said , " everybody ' s got to get it sometime .
" you must go through austrian channels .
” he was a thin little boy , but his face looked sixteen .
people climb up out of the black-painted vehicle .
tomorrow ?
" " all right , " the major said .
kill the hot part of the day .
the grass smelled as all summers smell and the two trees made a shade over each trap .
manuel had not moved .
it was strange because she had been present in the room for a moment , and she had very nearly
" i asked the driver .
wasn’t that bright ?
the square was emptying of people and the crowd was filling the cafés .
” “madrid is where one learns to understand .
" " where did you leave your bicycle ?
" " just have one more , " jack said .
" " you ' re right there , old classmate , " bill said .
basso gli uf iciali !
so mostly if a jock ain’t working he sits around the café de paris with the gang and they can
there i was looking down through the glass at that liner with everything in her and i was the first
names , characters , places , and incidents either are products of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously .
of the electric torch that shone on his red hands and on the dirty khaki of his tunic .
" " yes , monsieur barnes .
two fingers of beer that was left in the bottom of the bottle .
coming straight up the slope in sight of the thorn tree , the wind blowing across the hill , i
do send the waiter for a taxi .
but they were red and lively and he put them in a flat round tin with holes punched in the
no one who lived in it was out of sound of the big saws in the mill by the lake
“you can’t tell him not to , ” i said to guy .
" i hate his damned suffering .
” “four , ” said baldy , “out of a crew of six .
" he looks as though he ' d been hit plenty of times .
you stand right there , ” al said .
it was hot and choking .
i never thought about it nor spoke about it .
" poor old darling .
the two of them had been listening since daylight for a shot .
wheeler’s table .
them to open up the ballast tanks so she ' d lay solid .
it had contained dried apricots , soaking in water .
we were still great friends but now we were alone again and there was no track , only the general
“do you know how good it is ?
we hunted carefully and found them all .
gee , we had fun at maisons .
of the lake coming in on the shore , and he went back to sleep .
much sense , but they were big , nearly as big as the biggest one .
kate wouldn’t ever marry him .
" anywhere you ' d like to go , mike ?
" i got to do it .
they prefer it to the fines .
“there’s plenty more but dad only likes me to drink what’s open .
i started watching the spectacle and they were gone .
i wanted a hot bath .
when i asked him what they were like he said that he had many friends among them .
i have to think up something practical .
we don’t have to talk about it , do we ?
' we could go to murano together .
, you are digging them out of rubble ; or leaving them in rubble .
' let ' s forget it .
he probably loved to win as much as lenglen , for instance .
, always , to understand it .
“another quarter litre ?
" " i know , " said the count .
then flopping on the road .
always mucked off in all the wars since they , the cavalry , had the big horses .
" come in here a minute .
' please put it where it should be , ' she said .
know he’s not forgotten by his own people .
” asked the big mexican .
but the trip was spoiled yesterday .
” he asked her .
i sent her up to the show tonight .
“i got no kick on him .
at the place de grèves .
isn ' t triumph marvellous ?
but they lived in such a complicated world of already defined alliances and shifting feuds that krebs did not feel
“that’s all right .
” “come on back in the shade , ” he said .
" " you ' ll be rich .
they make almost none like that and the girl , although she was a young girl , knew one when
finally i took that trail thinking we must get them one at a time , and knowing this one was
" " you _are_ drunk .
his face was serious .
” “it’s been lovely all day .
and i remember the flock of geese the toto drove back and forth to the water .
it was off to one side of the track , below the railway embankment .
this is what we waited for , he thought .
” “could you have been my father ?
” “if you think it won’t keep me awake .
but i did not want to make money .
look , ” he opened a table drawer and took out two meat knives .
length across two planks , with two men staggering at the end of each plank , to the fish house
when the shooting was free , they became very good at it .
" where should i tell him ?
“i got him that time , ” zurito said .
send him a tender message ?
they ' re on their honeymoon .
back in the bow he laid the two fillets of fish out on the wood with the flying fish beside
he was more enthusiastic about america than ever , and he was not so simple , and he was not
who’s going to trust your mouth when you’re hot ?
finally they made the last turn and came into the straightaway with this kircubbin horse way out in front .
there were yellow butterflies and white butterflies around the blood and the streaks where the bodies had been hauled .
i can control mine .
” “it tastes like licorice , ” the girl said and put the glass down .
“miedo .
not even his father , could reach to the top of the bend where they curved in for the points
piled everywhere .
" i ' m sorry as hell , jack , " john says .
“juma says nobody knows how many people he has killed .
there was a bottle of valpolicella by the reading light and by the bed a bottle of mineral water ,
if you read it you must stop where the nigger jim is stolen from the boys .
" i ' d like it better if you didn ' t use words like that , " the girl
there was a big sea running and waves broke and the wind blew the spray against the car .
a military power and then take off .
" what do you do here nights ?
little thing i thought up on the way home .
somebody didn’t pay somebody so we got the shooting .
she was in too deep water and i didn ' t get anything off of her .
rose .
skiing , and the hazardous luge .
what the hell don’t i think about ?
rhetoric is the blue sparks from the dynamo .
" we have a little place , " the big one said .
plenty , and what good would they do ?
" you still have your bag .
we followed them in , moving very quietly on the game trails , pushing the vines aside and seeing the
on at each hour .
' ' take a glass of this , ' the colonel said , reaching accurately and well for the champagne
that was before the lovers .
” i asked .
happened , but the sensation cannot be recalled .
it was now about three o’clock in the morning and francis macomber , who had been asleep a little while
” “awful , ” his sister said .
hot .
” he was pretty close to the shakes and when he came near me he had a breath like a
that boy’s really making progress mr .
ve got a church , eight hundred yards away from any bridge .
” “leave me alone .
when i’d sit watching him working out in the hot sun i sure felt fond of him .
“i want to go in alone , ” the prisoner said .
oh , lord , don’t let them even catch a glimpse of it !
that boy could lick you , too .
there was no grass beside the road .
, quartering up on to the hillside .
you’re going to get your can knocked off .
looking at yourself in the mirror and doing the artifices of a woman is not very exciting .
the line went slack and nick thought the trout was gone .
' i did not wish to destroy anything this man had , and so i did not go into those
” the second drink was like the first , icy cold but quick melting in the wind and helena held
the same small village as a former luarca chambermaid who had proven hardworking and honest and hence given her village
walcott came right out after him .
the nose as he slid down from the fish .
" after we finished the lunch we walked up to the café de la paix and had coffee .
they carry those bows and arrows as protection .
but i don ' t want anybody but you .
when he woke there was someone sitting across the table from him .
” the man called “listen” through the curtain .
' now we were standing by the car on the road in the village waiting for the old man and
" as a matter of fact , supper was a pleasant meal .
allez voir des amis et manger quelque part .
' ' cola .
the driver started up the street .
it is done .
when they’re not they make a lot of trouble for everybody .
am i walking slowly enough ?
the dwarfs moving with their whacking bladders through the crowd .
only the skin running from the eyes down to the nostrils , smooth grey and delicately marked with white ,
she was and she was very afraid .
patrons of the arts and letters have discovered _the forum_ , he read .
he kept his feet up on the chair but reached up and put his cap straight .
' they drank , after touching glasses very lightly , so lightly that the contact was almost imperceptible .
" " you try and get seats .
' hapana .
nick could not hear the words .
it means any amount to him .
" you talk too goddam much .
rest you merry , gentlemen the sea change a way you’ll never be the mother of a queen one reader
you know how they can be .
and dusty miles of this , and then into a valley of sun-baked , eroded land where the soil was
“they can talk , but i can’t understand them , ” i told him .
and aimed carefully as another blasting carawong !
" " it ' s five pesetas .
, were the heavy , grey-green lobsters with their magenta overtones that presaged their death in boiling water .
you use it so loosely you should be able to define it .
" let ' s see what you weigh , jack , " freedman , walcott ' s manager said .
the crowd , running , went out the gate with him .
he was disgraced .
“it’s twenty minutes fast .
as the bird collapsed in flight , his head falling forward , only the great shots saw the impact of
and what about that company dead up the draw ?
machine to do it with , or anything you care to write about , and you feel a fool ,
“i want to talk to harold .
" i was only ragging .
’ “then he said , ‘everything’s all right .
“but in this war you can never tell .
manuel waved back the men with the capes .
“i cut my finger .
" the cold helps it , " i said .
he reeled in and holding the hook in his hand , walked down the stream .
they don’t know who you are any more .
” “what were you doing ?
" " you know that anyway .
“what made you say that ?
“they get this sort of fat married look .
robert cohn and bill were sitting at one of the tables .
i never get to bed before three o’clock .
" " i ' ve no money , " mike said .
that nigger beat him by a fluke .
' ' but _don ' t_ you think he ' s handsome , really ?
“i’ve only got two shells , ” nick said .
the ravine as protection , we climbed so that we might get high up the hillside above the buffalo and
have you eaten ?
“i can see you have been wounded , ” he said to nick .
” “only when i am touched or jarred .
' some in paris .
but we had to figure to get out and back and keep the road as clean looking as possible .
” then , “pull alongside , ” he said to captain willie .
i ' ve told that four times .
" " that was a fine way to look at it , " the cook said .
nor am i a no-fight general .
pegs for the tent .
jack stepped forward .
i want to do whatever is right .
i should wear it as a pin .
i never heard you ask anybody any military questions .
these irishmen and their kikes !
every village had a pelota court and on some of them kids were playing in the hot sun .
" i was getting glasses and a siphon .
we had a good time while he was in paris , and then he went off to vienna .
, suddenly , when communications had been perfect .
was reading .
' ' it ' s no attack , ' the colonel said .
" watch yourself , jimmy , " i heard solly freedman yell to him .
i shook my head and charo grinned again .
the heavy canvas cases , slipping the stocks out and putting them in their diagonal pockets , the barrels with
" he removed his cloth-covered helmet , put it on again and , stooping , went out the low entrance
” “it’s raining a big rain , ” she told him .
something else to think about .
“hello , retana !
' how old is m ' cola ?
“how are you on the weight .
, varied peninsula , heavy with the mounting summer heat now that they were away from the sea breeze ;
then the fish came alive , with his death in him , and rose high out of the water showing
dream .
' ' is it really ?
we sat close against each other .
' now , let us discuss the affairs of the order , ' the colonel said .
“before was different .
i did not care , particularly , how it all came out .
" " what ' s he drinking ?
“that your father that stayed up here reading ?
over here , the way they’re brought up , they’ll all make you a good wife .
" " the town ' s full of bright boys , " max said .
” “it’s going to be fun though .
we walked to the station .
” “the hell with trudy .
they were up on the causeway from mestre to venice now with the ugly breda works that might have been
he remembered now that was hopkins’s way .
isn ' t the anecdote complete ?
some one .
i could learn to run one , he thought .
" come in , jake .
“listen , ” said the detective , shaking his finger almost at cayetano’s nose , which projected , waxen yellow
the navel and the belly band , and if you did not get him he would move with such intelligence
was broken by the sun through the leaves .
it wasn’t any good to him any more and i took him by the throat with both hands , and
i make a piece now which was broken .
“oh , yes , ” said mr .
" well .
" " sure , that ' s what i ' m after .
sometimes when they had been kissing together a long time , cornelia would ask him to tell her again that
' now the memsahib and i would never laugh .
” “we’ll find some place .
it was an indictment and i saw three men in uniform start from a table for the flit gun man
finally , after a couple more false klaxons , the bus started , and robert cohn waved good-by to us
” “i’d kill him like that , ” nick said .
the log moved in the sand .
' god , he was a talker .
f— your mother .
it made me sick to see his head all loose like that .
' ' you know very well .
we ' ll have a look .
” nick said when the fish had gone under the bank again further upstream .
" braddocks asked .
also you said good-bye .
” “i have never been to america .
it was a lovely double , shot exactly as he should have shot , with complete consideration and respect for
i went on down over the sand-bars from where i left that three-masted schooner and i didn ' t find
” “i’ll send a runner with you .
but he stays down forever .
“what do you do , comrade ?
give them a few energy crackers to stall their whimpers .
" " you ' re my alarm clock , " the boy said .
one of the ice-wagon horses was down in the harness , kicking , and the other was plunging his head
“oh , it’s been gone a long time now .
, and we wore the _fiamme nere_ on the grey , open jackets with the grey sweaters ?
the heavy scrub .
was someone ' s fault , the guides , the choice of beat , the hills ; these all betrayed
you were ever there in the old days when it was shining , white and beautiful .
“you can stop the slaughter .
” “impressive .
” now the lion looked about him at the faces of all the nice people and he knew that he
eat this slowly and drink some tea and go to sleep again .
" i am _so_ sorry .
“tell me , ” she looked at him .
when i am ready i extend the other foot and he adjusts the other sock .
you could see them jumping ; just little ones weighing a couple of pounds apiece .
it ' s too hot to go out yet .
not a thing .
on conversation .
" " didn ' t you see anybody at all ?
' ' i ' d like to have seen one , ' i said .
get them into the ditch .
good that’s fine .
“as a mark of confidence .
didn ' t you hear me say no ?
you know a funny thing ; she never could write dialogue .
on the occasion of his unfortunate death .
” i knew this was true and there was nothing else to say , only i wished i had never
not all over .
that was jack .
now is it all right not to talk about it ?
the girl friend was several years older than cornelia and called her honey .
he could not move .
" come on , michael .
” “the keeley , ” william campbell said .
he was absolutely beautiful .
it was raining fairly hard now and we drove slowly .
the patches had all been removed even as far back as the rear echelon so that no kraut would know
it’s no good to change the religion .
” “it’s a pleasure , sir , ” said george .
" " i owe everybody money , " mike said .
the kind they issued to the air force once by mistake .
droopy looked around at me and grinned .
do you get that , bright boy ?
“look at him now , ” zurito said .
“does he still play them ?
stepping over the new iron fragments , the freshly broken bricks , and the blocks of stone , and watching
i’m a writer , you know , as well as a flyer .
the raft and sat , dripping , on the boards that were becoming hot in the sun .
' ' good , ' i said , and went to find a shirt and undershirt and a pair of
sing , ” frankie said , and he smiled .
" " i ' ve meant to get over , " said krum .
hudson river at albany it was raining hard .
i had a drink and waved to the vehicles .
” “i’m going to watch and see if they really eat it , ” red said .
' ' he was late getting home with the milk , ' pop said .
' you can call a boy or we can run it ourselves .
“will you get us out of here ?
he’s all right , nick thought .
where it ought to be .
we went into the hotel and on the stairs i met montoya .
the skiff was floated away with the tide and i swam over to her with my nose bleeding in the
_ _ _num_ st roman soldier_--you tried the red ?
and scuffed his shoes in the rosin .
finally we had to go and after distributing the empty beer bottles , the labels from the bottles , and
' is that how you say it ?
i suppose they figured they were not going to need a hell of a lot of office workers any more
” uncle george was standing against the wall , looking at his arm .
" " you ' d better come up and hear the game .
even watching carefully for the firmest footing you sunk down in the cool mud to the knees , and ,
if i didn’t feel bad i wouldn’t talk that way .
started wondering about where he was , and regretting i hadn ' t seen him since that night in montmartre
i was so surprised by the way he had rolled over dead from the shot after we had been prepared
" " i don ' t believe she ' ll ever marry him .
dropped their loads .
then , ' b ' wana , you shot that bull ?
” “why don’t you try and go to sleep ?
" " but mr .
” in the night when he woke after the moon was up he was sure they were not proud of
“i’m sorry .
his magazine and put the remaining shells in his pocket .
“all right , ” nick said .
then , without the glasses , i saw something moving over the shoulder of one of the valleys toward a
scissors , with two wooden forks at the end to pick them up with .
" " no , " said johnson .
when he quits using beasts and uses machines the earth defeats him quickly .
” “they’re not dangerous , are they ?
every man in the room except the german , who lay behind a table , and the public-school-looking boy who
" the express is an hour late , sir , " she said .
' ' is that where they shoot coots ?
“not for me , ” george said .
” “your father is a type of noble christian gentleman .
” “he can’t sweat .
" i ' ve never seen him do an awkward thing , " brett said .
they kill like a club .
” “absolutely and always .
a loaded rifle , while two black men and a white man looked back at him in contempt , knew
there’s no reason ever to miss one .
it was strange , too , wasn’t it , that when he fell in love with another woman , that
the icy road .
” “who are your good ones ?
so now i want to see the death of any self-called humanist[ _num_ ] because a persevering traveller like mungo
i figured if i had just one good pic , i could get away with it .
” “it’s too steamy .
cheer up , boy , he said .
she did not complain about them but i could see they hurt her .
" we said good night .
' ' thank you , ' she said .
stop him .
i hate a cramp , he thought .
“you got enough ?
“you’re a good boy , ” he said .
my wife has decided to divorce me .
i was very angry .
father say one could well wish themselves dead if once they became a victim of that malady—i believe my father
all went up in the air and stayed all around me .
" with your permission , " said the smallest one .
have you heard anything ?
to talk .
but listen , billy , and i’ll tell you a secret .
" " i felt so terribly .
how does it go ?
” “write in the book then .
' that ' s exactly what he said .
” “where did you learn about that type of gull ?
" " it tastes like licorice , " the girl said and put the glass down .
" it was early afternoon and the sun was out .
that was the whole thing .
" the waiter wiped the edge of the table with a towel and shook his head .
” “i’ve located everything on the list .
what are these outbursts of affection , michael ?
we came along the road into galtur carrying our skis and rucksacks .
the beach was smooth and firm , and the sand yellow .
” “how’s for the lady to have a look at one ?
they sat leaning forward , their elbows on the counter .
" " never ?
“kiss now .
it never did any good .
leaves .
duran lost over half his brigade , i heard .
' ' goddamn it , i killed him .
never was he under arrest .
” “isn’t it bad ?
the last one is the better .
“only don’t shoot any holes in the hull .
" " good god !
he knew this was not true because she had not seen them dead as he had in the rain in
" " i wouldn ' t want to be that old .
” then her voice rising , “harry !
it ' s like a wonderful nightmare .
" and he said , " b ' wana kabor " .
' ' it was resumed when you spoke , ' she said .
” “you hate them in that order ?
birmingham , and she said it was no good .
be opened and her remains dumped on the common boneheap .
don’t forget .
" bill said , " what happened , mike ?
the heavies were bombing on the smoke line and the smoke line was now over us .
" " it sounds good , " i said .
see you later , jake .
“all right , ” the gypsy said .
i helped him get his clothes off and got him into bed .
“i don’t know about sheets , ” he said .
the only thing that makes the pack bigger is my blanket .
he could beat anything , he thought , because no thing could hurt him if he did not care .
” “so , ” said the porter .
she laid the mirror down on the dresser and went over to the window and looked out .
" you ' re too old , " the picador said .
as the trout’s back came up out of the water the minnows jumped wildly .
beyond that the river went into the swamp .
” “i got to .
“don’t you want to get in that game ?
then the hand that felt so big in her lap went away and was on her leg and started to
" " no understand , " the lady said .
' i think i could safely say , yes .
why don ' t you live in new york ?
do give me a cigarette .
i just got nine into her .
" don ' t you worry .
she was still talking to him .
hummock to hummock , picking a way across the marsh and wade and flounder through the canals and the ducks
” his next bird died in the air as the spring arm of the sunken trap swung him up from
“our trout are all in the stream and we’ll take them when we need them .
, suddenly , you find in a ridiculously unbelievable abundance .
shop .
' they ' re beauties .
' ' yes , ' the roman said .
but you drink them awfully well .
we ' ll take some punishment to-morrow .
“maria , look there , ” he said .
the one before a desk , the other in a chair against the wall .
“go on out there , ” manuel said .
" " it ' s a lie , " bill said .
" " do you think it will be all right ?
“no , ” william campbell said .
you kept from thinking and it was all marvellous .
sidewalk under the laurel trees .
“i didn’t mean to be rude , papa .
' bastard ' s been drinking , too , ' i said .
" " me too , " hogan said .
liked to sit late because he was deaf and now at night it was quiet and he felt the difference
i think dad probably waited for me .
he took a coil of silk line out of a tobacco pouch he carried in the left breast pocket of
" " that ' s funny , " he said .
" no , " said manuel .
we had set february _num_ th as the last safe date to leave .
jack was eating a grape-fruit .
be happier and that there was nothing coming up except to be lonely again and then along comes this girl
i don’t know how he could but he seemed to .
i suppose it is because the distances are all changed .
' your stones are in the safe at the gritti in your name .
he took off the rubber bands that held the rod segments together and commenced to joint up one of the
i am good soldier .
“he’s nothing .
" " i ' ve got your ticket .
robert cohn and myself , and all the bull-fighters , separately for the ones i liked , and lumping all
" billy campbell caressed the sheet with his lips and his tongue .
" going out to lunch ?
“please give them the bottle , ” frazer said .
then , getting well , decided if it was a punishment i had paid it and at least i knew
” “i can’t , ” manuel said .
it was liking , and liking the body , and introducing the body , and persuading , and taking chances
" didn ' t you like bryan ?
i have a rotten habit of picturing the bedroom scenes of my friends .
” i saw one of them looking at the corner of the door and he saw the beach evidently because
even now , drunk .
there .
i’m getting awfully hungry .
in between the rounds i worked on his legs .
“badajoz , ” he said .
it was not nearly so satisfactory to brag when you could not be understood , still it was better than
he had been away from northern michigan once for eighteen years when he was a young man and he looked
we cannot do anything for you .
eat it now and it will strengthen the hand .
but personally i don ' t want him around .
sheep , and then across the stream and up the bare slope to where the fire was burning in front
_your_ saviour .
when this lady saw that the magazine was not going to rise , she became a little disgusted with cohn
you are a lovely lady , brett .
” “i can’t write now .
but don ' t be angry about it .
“are you awfully tired , littless ?
that is perfect , you know .
sat down on the floor .
” the tradesman’s return they came on across in the night and it blew a big breeze from the northwest
" " they ' re all right .
“evans must have left him home to do the chores .
” “what , daughter ?
” “did you see it ?
there were chimney swifts in the sky .
his head was held high and he looked like a man walking in his sleep .
" " his , " she said , and nodded at the count .
secret of my success .
' ' we froze up completely .
” “otro loco m ás , ” said the barman and turned away .
“sometimes .
' that must have been stonewall jackson , sir .
“all right .
" i can see we ' ll have to go .
" " fifty grand is a lot of money , " i said .
nick dropped him into the water .
the shop they had been dancing to the gramophone while her girl friend was in the front of the shop
i rather think i saw him just before , and then quite suddenly i was sitting down in the street
as nick walked along the rough boards high above the water he heard the double protest of the long springboard
i got his arm around behind him and came up on it but i brought it too far because i
” “if you like .
” “i’m awfully tired , ” he said .
little pool of blood on a rock where he had stood , behind some bushes , and i cursed the
it looked as though it was the same as ever , only now instead of walcott ' s punches just
i heard the train and then saw it coming , first in a long curve looking very small and hurried
and the rich have radios to talk to them in their boats and to bring them the baseball .
i could see it was a fine timber country on the other side as you came down the mountains into
he smiled and stood before a bar with a shining steam pressure coffee machine .
” “well , ” says hogan .
she is très , très gentille .
but the man i think of to compare him with never put the chips on the line and went to
” “since i can remember .
then it spread like a cloud .
' ' all except our local ducks that breed here .
royal palms , blue sky , and the small , white cumulus clouds that continuously change in shape and size
the tuna shone silver in the sun and after he had dropped back into the water another and another rose
i have erected the defence against brown-nosing my superiors and brown-nosing the world .
johnson ?
face wouldn’t catch cold .
“i don’t know .
i’m sorry , littless .
then he bit the stream off sharp , made a quick lift with the wine-bag and lowered it down to
adams , she’s just broke down .
please tell me about combat without being too brutal .
” he was like a photographer arranging for a group picture .
friend high up in the hills , cold at night , wearing coats at the table , having waited so
" we kissed standing at the door .
i told him i couldn ' t do it .
" they ' re all bad in the legs .
they cannot break that promise and now the indians have taken the country over from the europeans .
“where are the men ?
beautiful wife ; but she knew too much about him to worry about him either .
“you’re poison to me .
we walked up the rue delambre .
of that hotel that cost him sixty francs a month where he did his writing , and from it he
we had put an awful lot of white phosphorus on the town before we got in for good , or
, ” succeeds in conveying the harsh atmosphere of a totalitarian regime .
his bare feet .
“no one shot from cars , ” said wilson coldly .
_gran maestro_ , when will next saturday come ?
they seemed to pay no attention but fed away steadily .
bread is the opium of the people .
" what do you want ?
and you don ' t think anyone else had softened him up ?
” “the same with ditch , ” i said .
“that’s the way everything is .
all very gloomy and full of prejudice against droopy .
it was very honest and it made a fine picture .
” george opened the slit that opened back into the kitchen .
' dead .
at the table there were fontan and madame and the little boy , andré .
it was possible then and for five years after .
' how many times have you been hit in the head ?
down in the dining room the picador sat looking at the priests .
as a hunter and carried a long bow and a sealed quiver of arrows .
you wouldn’t want to destroy me again , would you ?
” “go and drown in it , ” said al .
" he did not say anything and she looked at him and put her hand out again .
you ' ll get a real one there .
“just talk .
then blinding as they mounted a hill , blinking as they came near , then dimmed as bill passed .
them two at a time outside to show them nothing would happen , he wearing his own chin strap tight
did you try that mattress ?
i expected i would be a saint .
abdullah took an ash can to-day .
he had a pleasant smile if you did not notice how his eyes showed when he was hurt .
as the wind increased the dark green stems of the fronds blew wildly as the wind killed them .
' ' the taking of paris was nothing , ' the colonel said .
" " where do you come from ?
having discovered my vulnerable point , my achilles tendon so to speak , the doctor pursues his advantage .
i’m going to .
” “oh—” i said , feeling sick for him .
" one of the stretcher-bearers came in .
” he asked respectfully .
naturally there wasn’t anything , but that was the first part of his pitch .
” “how would seventy-five do ?
in _num_ , when his wife pauline’s wealthy uncle gus pfeiffer offered to stake the hemingways to an african safari
brett did not eat much .
he no longer dreamed of storms , nor of women , nor of great occurrences , nor of great fish
maybe cats do not die then , they say they have nine lives , i do not know , but
“that wouldn’t do any good .
' ' maybe i am wrong .
branches broken , the crash of trees pushed over , the rumbling in the bellies of the elephants and the
“keep the rod butt in the socket on the chair , ” i told him .
" " the lying bastard !
made by the oars is in place and the boat loses all her lightness .
before he had become ill he had been a very promising , even a sensational , fighter and , while
their mother had told the two men they could sleep in the bedroom next to the living room .
, slung on one side , water canteen on the other , skinning knife , whetstone , extra box of
' i said let ' s go .
he’s all by himself .
" so long , bright boy , " he said to george .
” “you old lice , ” said johnny and slapped me on the back .
he had betrayed the elephant when he had gone back to tell them at the shamba .
" " you ' ll write about her sometime , " sister said .
then : " do you want me to send him away ?
i told him but he knows what it ' s all about .
french .
no one had ever seen this inscription except the girl , the colonel and the man who had engraved it
' ' venice , ' she said .
i couldn’t swallow for a week .
” “where do you come from ?
” “please let’s not talk .
on the stern i grabbed his throat with the other hand .
i like to hear them talk .
as a boat , it is fine , too .
i decided they must be in the radio .
that’s the one where they go to bed every night with the naked sword between them .
" she spoke in a sort of imitation joyful manner .
” “it’s quite illegal , ” wilson said .
i hope so much i do not have to fight again .
you must keep your head clear .
we’ll hunt along easy .
his whole chest felt scalding inside .
” the mexican said at the door .
it ' s still hunting , the way you hunt a big buck at home .
” “that’s funny , ” he said .
in the bottle .
" bill stepped into his underclothes .
we started up the hill and i jumped a sable in some brush .
nothing at all .
in madrid ?
they nearly sold it to you too .
nothing you could do about it .
“i’m going down and get that kitty , ” the american wife said .
road beneath the bank of the river .
" " no , come on up .
i drank another cup of tea , went in the tent , dressed , put on my dry boots and
the people’s army was on the offensive finally .
i looked back at the table where luis delgado sat as i went out .
' but let ' s not speak about her .
there’s sixteen with today and a day each way makes eighteen .
“with my true , wonderful memories .
he’s going to give me some money at the start .
' ' why don ' t we have some intellectual life ?
there wasn’t much current compared to the last day we had fished and there was only a light breeze .
" " you ain ' t got an idea what it ' s like , jerry , when you can
but he worries about it and i rattle him trying to get him to speed up .
” she cried aloud , “help me , vicente !
“not for me , ” said macomber .
' we ' ll take it that way .
you’re not going .
" jack asked .
i paid my way into enough things that i liked , so that i had a good time .
, found my clothes and again made them into a pillow , and lying on my side drank the whisky
“it does not disturb you ?
” “what party are you comrade ?
to go down to san sebastian , but nobody has any business to talk like mike .
pay me .
i ' ll lay you don ' t .
" " as you see , " said mr .
the old man could see pieces of the meat of the fish spilling white from the corner of his jaws
' ' you find everything on earth at harry ' s .
but don ' t you really know ?
oh , yes .
george put the two platters , one of ham and eggs , the other of bacon and eggs , on
” the young gentleman looked through his pocketbook and took out a two-lira note and two ones .
he had it screwed down tight .
i scrubbed the brush over the side .
we worked over jack plenty too , in between the rounds .
something else grew in its place .
there were plenty of days coming when he could fish the swamp .
he settled the sack around his shoulders and put the skiff on her course .
finally , the road came out on the top of the hills .
sometimes i found insects in the swamp meadows , in the grass or under ferns , and used them .
i don’t want you to get scratched .
the sky was high and clear blue and no clouds had come yet .
it was too fast and smooth .
“i’ve read it in the paper .
dick picked up the axes and eddy took the saw down from the tree .
when they had hit new orleans was coming south again .
” “oh , ” said his wife .
passing the skinner ' s tent he showed me the head which looked , body-less and neck-less , the cape
they did not say anything .
" " my dear , i am sure mr .
” the girl came in with a very slim brown bottle and poured the marsala into it .
after i was dressed and had paid for the bath-cabin , i walked back to the hotel .
he strode very loosely and with a slight lift , and i liked to watch him and to feel the
fifty yards is ideal .
he’d better go swimming .
still that was the only chance .
" i think he really did have a good time .
it to the patronne .
i swam out to the raft , pulled myself up , and lay on the hot planks .
strange eyes and the clicking chop of the teeth as he drove forward in the meat just above the tail
" " the first horse did bother me , " cohn said .
and four indians .
montoya went out of the room .
the searchlight was from the police car that had come silently , without siren , and posted itself at one
it ached already .
they sailed well and the old man soaked his hands in the salt water and tried to keep his head
" " it ' s a lie , " peroxide said .
" " with me now , " jack said , " it don ' t make any difference where i
, before he reached the steer , turned , gathered himself and charged where the man had been , trying
in the holster .
” “no , ” said my father .
” “well , there is now , ” she said sweetly .
they tried taget over it , and we potted them from forty yards .
he’ll get him just like he got wall street .
ever .
” “there’s the two moor girls from ceuta at that corner table .
nick adams , cross village , michigan—common-law wife .
they were the colour of black walnut meats and they were beautiful to see .
“no one is to leave until the police come , ” someone shouted from the door .
they were the only saloons in jessup and they did not have to do that kind of thing .
he had been there before and one of the fishermen was looking after the skiff for him .
' ' so do i , ' said the colonel .
they sat down in the big chairs in front of the fire .
this was an item of clothing which none of the rest of us affected .
' ' yes , sir , ' jackson said and thought , the old son of a bitch really is
sing or to be the king or the president .
” “that’s wonderful .
i have seen it come , loosening itself from the bomb rack , and falling with that strange curve .
because they’re still useful .
as far as you could see , there was that faded yellow gulfweed in small patches that means the main
trigger came to what , in a squeeze , seemed metal stuck against metal .
“it’s a very real pleasure .
” “i’d like to see mr .
the likeness is excellent .
o ' clock that night , if that train still left at five ; the cars were marked paris-rome ,
" we went into the next bar and i sent a waiter for a taxi .
“don’t worry , ” he said .
“we saw that one at a funeral coming into town .
" isn ' t she ?
it sounds as though he were right in camp .
” up at the hotel jack took off his shoes and his coat and lay down for a while .
" come on , " said montoya .
” “before midnight .
“where ?
you were equipped with good insides so that you did not go to pieces that way , the way most
' ' some day he ' ll own all venice .
" i must go and find our friends and bring them here .
a damn good fighter .
" he walked with me up to the kiosque at the corner .
truly , finally and for good .
i heard him say a hundred and two .
he was a great bartender and he was always pleasant , always cheerful , and he had a lot of
manager and sword-handler .
” “all right , ” said wilson .
” “and if the tessera is false ?
he hurt my throat bad .
" " what about the other one ?
” “i am sure .
” “like what , brother ?
“positively .
“anyway that was off to the left by carabanchel .
' b ' wana , ' m ' cola said , looking at me when i had straightened up and
but then i guess angry is about the best way that you can be when you attack .
" well , you ' re not , " said the other little man .
here’s luck .
the shade felt solid and cool as running water .
no coffee .
he was a good bull .
he made a careful search of the country .
” “all right , ” she said , and climbed up the grassy bank .
of the body without breaking bone , and he had become quite confident of his personal immortality since he knew
of the gunwale and passed her astern .
he dipped the coffee pot half full , put some more chips under the grill onto the fire and put
we got plenty , ” morgan said .
thank you .
' ' i suppose they have whatever they have and they are more fortunate than others .
lots of _pescecani_ come down from milano to gamble at the lido .
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--what ' s the use ?
in heroes , asked for a moment of silence for our glorious dead , he had stood stiffly to attention
he did not want it and he knew that it was bad for him .
you did not have to think about it .
' ' better .
' ' he gets so very excited , ' pop said .
the cap , gave him a strange look .
the two sable had stopped looking and were feeding .
“you can’t take dictation , can you ?
after a while jackson drove the car down the ditch and willow lined road with the car ' s big
“can’t we maybe stop talking ?
you feel however you feel and i’ll be jolly for us both .
the cape was heavy and smoothly stiff with gold .
never , never tell them .
" i don ' t want to eat up your meal , " i said when some one handed me
" " they did not leave any word ?
i don’t want any one else .
' ' i ' m not suffering , sir .
” “there aren’t any bullfighters any more , ” retana said .
" he poured some of the coffee in a glass .
across the bridge we turned up a road to the corrals .
“i don’t think schmidt is catholique .
and so’s your water .
" he turned to mike .
belmonte watched romero , too , watched him always without seeming to .
” “i don’t know , john .
" it ' s business , " said jack .
' we were standing under the big tree by the cooking fire with the light rain pattering in the leaves
valéry , yes .
” “okay .
" you ' re not a bad type , " she said .
“i don’t give a damn who shot you , but i’ve got to clear this thing up .
then they settle .
or do you suppose that’s her idea of putting up a good show ?
” “but it does mean milk .
adams we want to speak to her .
' and now , _gran maestro_ , what do we actually eat ; without mysteries ?
bull ' s shoulder , leaning far in over the bull ' s horns and pivoting on the two upright
“you must have piombo .
i wished i had gone up to paris with bill , except that paris would have meant more fiesta-ing .
“i have to and you know it .
he would have killed juma , too .
i’m different , ” he said .
just listen .
we heard the hard ta-bung of their shots which had no effect on the cyclist who kept on pedaling until
' ' piga !
” “everything but work .
only by myself .
half asleep i had been sure it was georgette .
" " you see , mr .
you drink yourself to death .
” “i’d like to have the rifle and go down now to the edge of the timber and kill both
" " i have never been to america .
was just one big thing of flame now like you never saw and going round and round and there were
a jackal , like a grey fox , trotted across the road .
” “you know what he looks like , ” frank told him .
take them dry , and asked : ' how are you doing , jackson ?
, and slowly pivoting the horse against the pressure , so that at last he was clear .
” “yes , you know it’s perfectly simple .
' ' people objected , finally .
“you ought to play the races , bright boy .
' then he turned bad and he said , ' daughter , i could sleep good straight up and down
“go to the house and tell them to beat toward us through the weeds in extended order .
' i have not the talent for it and i know too much .
' ' i never was there .
" come on , " mike said .
his nose was sunken , his eyes were slits , he had queer-shaped lips .
“you’ll have to play up to this , ” she said .
a barrel whisky that came from scotland that was so much better than the advertised brands that it was pitiful
, although it was a very poor novel .
bring back and the tank men had killed them .
" he ' s been in his room all day , " the landlady said downstairs .
paris is the town the most sportif in the world .
' i love you my last true and only love , ' she quoted .
" he walked off , bare-footed on the coral rocks , to the ice house where the baits were stored
" now is when i must prove it .
" " we can only stay a minute , " i said .
i had heard them talking from a long way away .
you go straight to the hotel and see if she’s there and if everything’s all right .
manuel ran toward the bull .
" " you know some girls , don ' t you ?
don’t try anything fancy .
" " i remember everything from when we first went together .
” “what did the cards do ?
' i love it when you all reach the little terrier stage .
moved on .
” he was afraid to look at marjorie .
” “tear gas .
that damn cohn .
" " i will go to the states .
” the kid came over .
later stories , also set in america , relate to hemingway’s experiences as a husband and father , and even
" " tell me what drunks they are .
all the balconies were crowded with people .
" what do you mean , kike ?
sacks of sugar or at the havana coal company .
but i know it ' s perfectly simple .
it ' s too broken .
“don’t you feel well ?
brett gave the chauffeur the address of her hotel .
she leaned forward against the table and put her hands on her breasts and smiled .
m ' cola used a knife beautifully and i liked to watch him skin-out , but to-night , after i
i wonder how the great dimaggio would have liked the way i hit him in the brain ?
" " so , that ' s what they are .
he opened a bottle of white rock and poured some alongside of the ice and then swirled the lump of
bumby got so bloodthirsty about mr .
while suzy was talking to the people she knew and making a list of what she needed for the house
garner moved close to joe as the wagon jolted .
" my god , schmidt est catholique .
' ' why did you shoot ?
there was a sheen of blood all down his flank .
' our problem , _gran maestro_ , is that i have already eaten in my room as pitted does and
he was standing talking with brett , who was sitting on a high stool , her legs crossed .
" " sure , " says hogan .
" such a beautiful expression .
cut him .
“did you want another drink , macomber ?
i showed them the papers , which were written in very beautiful language and full of _fratellanza_ and _abnegazione_ ,
as soon as they come i ' ll bring them right up .
i went down to the washroom and looked in .
” they climbed until it was dark and then made another dry camp .
stream is well in and there were birds ahead working over a school of little tuna .
in back was a dressing room .
” as i turned to watch the road one of the doors of the estaminet opened and two civilians wearing
he wasn’t sitting in front of the fire or going fishing tomorrow with bill and his dad or anything .
only always with a successful attack it rains or snows .
” “sure , ” says jack , “maybe i will .
” “there is a word for such people when they do like that , in french , ” fontan said
we trailed him fast , hoping to jump him and have a shot , and it was easy trailing in
“he says they found the comrade they were looking for , ” i told him .
my soul belongs to steve ketchel .
“damn crook , ” he said .
that was the only time in my life i got so i dreamed about things .
he tried to talk but he couldn’t .
' ' how big ?
” “and what do you lack ?
i won’t tell you too much .
how was we to know they’d shoot at us in mariel after we could go and come there open for
do you have to kill me too ?
' but it ' s a good story .
but what was left you packed on a sled wrapped in a blanket and roped on and you got the
of the boat , and the colonel handed his guns and the combination cartridge box and shooting stool into the
he sold wine too , bad wine .
but they were national guard and hard luck .
the monotony tires you , he thought .
you something true .
, and came back and stood a little way away because i didn’t want to butt in and my old
wind blowing , the fresh butter much admired , grant ' s gazelle chops , mashed potatoes , green corn
” john asked when jack was dressed .
" when ?
one card came from her from there .
he was carrying it lower .
he ' s really a good shot .
this set his heart to pounding and he hurried back to his own room but cornelia was asleep .
' in a way i am glad .
" " we have got the loveliest hotel , " mike said .
the current must be carrying them to the eastward .
” my old man said , and handed me a couple of soldi without looking away from holbrook .
” “three hundred francs swiss .
did i love him ?
the army has plenty of food .
bull had passed , travelling after rain .
i wish i could talk spanish .
outside it was dark .
but it did not start .
standing on the cement platform beside his bags , looking down the rails toward the headlight of the train coming
“goddam it .
i have to think too hard to ever be lonely .
“it is not half-past two .
" it ' s all looked after .
johnson talks about it at vevey inside the station café it was warm and light ; the tables were shiny
” “they were all trying to kill him , weren’t they ?
a mile along the road was the car .
the major did not come to the hospital for three days .
' ' well , we ' re not bitched until to-morrow night .
want trudy again ?
coffee is good for you .
that’s what i was watching when the fiats dove on me .
finally the old man was finished and he stood there leaning on his property bow .
off on the right , almost closing the harbor , was a green hill with a castle .
but why the sirens ?
he still sounded like , had shot a fine bull kudu , but a masai walked down the centre of
' ' take him over to that corner table and talk to him .
i watched the way they sailed very carefully at first in case i ever wanted to use them in a
" of course they ' ll come .
take all-day trips in the boat together .
“all i wanted was to show the danger .
out from under the trees and past the gate into the street that led into town .
he leaned back against a post .
maybe they are former fascists or maybe they are something else , or maybe it is just the line that
" " i am not active any longer .
you have the dripping saucers ?
" i ' m not embarrassed .
had him always and let them stay drunk at the beer shamba .
' where the hell else would we be , man .
and muggy and cheerful and quiet .
made the elephant his brother .
" it was nothing .
” “that’s what i’m worried about .
the matador something to hold .
” “i do , ” the man told him .
nor of monte corona , nor the sette communi , nor of arsiero .
i must not be so stupid about it .
i don ' t want to work that close to him .
it was at that minute that the first one hit us .
look , ” he said .
he ' s terrible when he ' s tight .
edge of the hills and was close bordered on either side with trees .
i had one on my forehead that people still commented on , asking if i had bumped my head ;
he only answered questions .
when do i eat ?
that ' s better .
, “the very rich are different from you and me .
” but he had no friends , evidently , because people began putting their pistols away and somebody lifted down
” “do you think there will be enough to make a shortcake ?
if there was anyone here but a rummy they’d tell you how square i’m being with you .
you couldn’t get out to her .
as he came up he called out to wilson in swahili and they all saw the change in the white
” “we do wonderful things in the dark , ” he said .
“there ain’t anything to do .
” eddy said .
like a dull afternoon at chicote’s and i decided to leave as soon as i should have bought a round
" i feel much better .
' ' that was another time .
jack’s head moved a little on the pillow .
“i will keep this .
represented that always characterizes pornography and i remember thinking how much i disliked pornographic pictures and painting and writing and
but when they come there’s plenty of them .
but enrique was running down the calle san jerónimo to the all-night first-aid station and paco was alone , first
" " i love you very much .
" " it doesn ' t bother me .
' wake up , son , ' he had said .
nick lay back with his father’s arm around him .
” “of course i will .
but you get the orders , and you have to carry them out .
“there it is , ” he said .
onie , you fire on the other .
“they are up the extremadura road , ” the old waiter said .
i don’t want to get there late .
reel commenced to screech and out he came , boom , in a long straight jump , shining silver in
but hold me as close as we can and let ' s think about nothing .
the steps were very intricate and their faces were intent and concentrated .
some men picked maera up and started to run with him toward the barriers through the gate out the passageway
“it is a very rare thing , ” another waiter said .
he simply knew that droopy was a better man than he was .
“you’ve got a hell of a breath , ” he told it .
it was crowded .
please sleep well , he thought .
you don ' t like the answers .
be cheerful to-night .
” “thank you my dear blessed .
" " anywhere around five o ' clock .
he went out with the money and so of course i thought he had attended to it .
why didn’t you poison him ?
' ' surely .
” “something like a hundred , ” i said .
“what are you buzzards talking about ?
she knew it was for the best .
asked for , and it was as real as minneapolis , where the revellers left their beds each morning to
" you understand it all about his wife ?
are you hungry , littless ?
it’s a nigger weapon .
“all we have to do is stop and let them take the liquor .
" " i don ' t mean anything violent .
his blond hair was down over his forehead .
he did not hear them .
" " you bitch , " i said .
" " what about it ?
the three of us sat at the table , and it seemed as though about six people were missing .
“they had rummies in napoleon’s time too .
” “so am i , ” said al .
i ' ll always be awake .
somebody else was planting the last pair of banderillos .
up ahead and to the left of the other duck that was climbing to the left and as he pulled
” “and the gay ones are all dead .
” the man sitting beside him shouted .
yes , he thought .
there was a close , crowded hum that came every day before the bull-fight .
, and we entered the tercio of the cavalry .
” “on a mangé , on a bu du vin , de la bière , et il y avait aussi
fun to talk to .
they wanted to get married , but there was not enough time for the banns , and neither of them
the brakeman had a bucket and a bunch of waste and was mopping up and washing where the blood had
” “very beautiful , ” he said .
it had two good spares , set-in well fenders , a radio , a big spotlight , plenty of luggage
the bed , pulled them on .
" on dit , mais on ne sait jamais , " madame fontan said .
in the fall he and smith and charley wyman took a wagon and tent , grub , axes , their
caffeine , we are here .
there was the big red one , who believed their own publicity .
' then we will ride in our gondola in the cold wind .
and throve in the monsoon tropical climate , just as papa told us some of the black slaves had escaped
this was a fish built to feed on all the fishes in the sea , that were so fast and
” “do you think it will ever be spring ?
his ease , nor his pleasure , nor any notions of glory ; nor , if he win far enough
the pasta asciutta was good ; the wine tasted of alum , and we poured water in it .
" " it gives you all the dope that ' s of interest to cohn .
” “maybe he is spinning around , ” said the interpreter .
took the fezzes away .
' i think i ' ve got him .
spain were appearing in magazines , but too late to have been included in “the first forty-nine .
the music started and again we danced , tight in the crowd .
“i’ll stay here with him , ” zurito said .
below the meadow and the line of the birches there was the dark green of a cedar swamp and far
leave them open if you like it that way .
" the chambermaid put the tray with the beer-bottles and glasses down on the table .
but in war these animals succumb in much the same manner as the more common and less hardy horse .
' we camped under some trees near three big wells where native women came for water and , after drawing
twenty only to be beaten by the luck that separated perfect shooters in the end .
” they kept on along the road and then took another road that was even more overgrown .
about , than to have it bright and shining and nothing to say , or smooth and well-oiled in the
' i couldn ' t spit that night nor afterwards for a long time , ' he said .
this goes up way beyond where i ever took you hunting .
" you ever seen these fellows ?
_num_ d roman soldier—what’s the use ?
i had been .
chapter vii while the bombardment was knocking the trench to pieces at fossalta , he lay very flat and sweated
" imagine being buried on a day like this , " i said to john .
" although i don ' t know how , me not being a plumber , they expected me to steal
then people commenced to come running .
' m ' uzuri , b ' wana , ' he said .
, at eylau .
orleans wasn’t much of a town either .
” “are you glad to have me ?
” he saw on ahead where the road turned to the right and ran northwest through the forest swamp instead
made and he’s never done any work with his hands .
two-hearted river : part ii the undefeated in another country hills like white elephants the killers che ti dice la
he knows what i think of him .
" i ' ll see you there .
tempers and you were a little hungry all the time and would become suddenly and unreasonably irritated at things you
“let’s undress .
they both chuckled .
" i know you will .
” he stood there biting his lower lip .
' ' it was like ski-ing in the dark .
piombo .
” nick’s imagination was both stirred and horrified by this and he thought of various animals but none seemed attractive
since he was eighteen years old .
” they are , he thought , the hardest in the world ; the hardest , the cruelest , the
clear and sharp as on a winter day , which , of course , it was , they saw the
' get up on somebody ' s shoulders to shoot .
“i wouldn’t say .
john said he didn’t want to waste time with people who had enough money to take a vacation anywhere in
procession .
" " hold him tight , " said the doctor .
' you prissy jerk , the colonel thought .
" " i know we will .
“i regret the absence of the chocolate , the postal cards and cigarettes , ” he said .
“what are you upset about ?
“she was a nice girl , ” helena said to roger as they got into the car .
this kid was standing at the lunch counter .
each little place like that all down the coast has a government delegate , but i figured the chink must
i stopped at the post and they gave it me with mine .
' it ' s a nice shot .
i took them both out to the kitchen and poured the half-full glass down the sink .
” “they should be rescued from ignorance .
" " afterwards comes the headache , " said the thin one .
there’s the testimony of the gun-bearers and the driver too .
when andré came home from the show we were still sitting in the kitchen and were talking about hunting .
when i banked out of it i looked down and of course she had been pouring back smoke but she
john jumps into the ring .
the cape as manuel side-stepped , pivoted on his heels with the charge of the bull , and swung the
' did my literary pal get off ?
connections , he had held cards and won several hundred dollars .
i was enjoying cohn ' s nervousness .
were the thin feathers of the cirrus against the high september sky .
is she a vehicle ?
the best tunes they had that winter were “sing something simple , ” “singsong girl , ” and “little white
" " i wish the wind would drop , though .
, my wife .
" " well , i ' ll take the fly-book , then .
” “do many men kill themselves , daddy ?
no one had said anything more until they were back in camp .
i went as far as the inner gate to the tracks .
mind to go out .
" jack asked the fellows who were weighing .
it was a gloomy room with a little light coming in from the window on the narrow street .
there is always a chance , roger thought , when a drink can still do what it is supposed to
but that was the way they were .
of m ' utu-umbu camp .
we get on well .
i can tell when i’m going to have one because i talk so much .
' ' do you suppose the word gentleman derives from a man who is gentle ?
he paid no attention to marcial .
i know it sounds silly me being mother’s daughter and you with everyone .
' we ' ll ask droopy how the valley is .
but he said nothing of this to the bird who could not understand him anyway and who would learn about
" i know where i can get a key , " he said .
' ' you do anything when i say please .
to him breathing regularly .
walking across the square to the hotel everything looked new and changed .
there will be several millions of americans here shortly .
" i was just telling jake here that you ' re a moron .
down below against the woods with cars going along it , lifting the dust up .
now he could let it run through his fingers without the fish feeling any tension .
" " shoot him then , " said the doctor .
they looked like no negroes i had ever seen .
it is better that you hear it from me if you have curiosity on this subject , than that you
all day i sit in the ante-chamber and he will not receive me .
along the street in the snow .
we saw a white house under some trees on the hillside .
waking in the morning i extend one foot and the boy places the sock on it .
it was late afternoon now and the sky was heavy with clouds .
then i asked a man and he took me by the arm and led me to it .
i hope i have made myself clear , gentlemen .
what you call a t .
in a tree m ' cola pointed out a lesser kudu skull with one beautiful , long , curling horn
he will be shot .
" i am a bull-fighter .
she ' ll bring you another one .
it reminds me of a story i read a long time ago .
” “which champagne would you prefer , sir ?
have you ever been in action , comrade ?
dark .
i didn ' t mean to be rude .
wet , more frightened than he had ever been in a bombardment , because of a house and a long
then three more got to their feet .
but they’re gone now since they quit cutting hemlock bark and the camps closed down .
—they’re crooks , ain’t they ?
saw her pretty pear-shaped breasts and the long , clean niggery legs and was studying her pleasant profile most profitably
" will you boys keep an eye on our things ?
they had been addressed before by d ' annunzio after victories , and before defeats , and they knew what
i can ' t remember him except that he gave me an air rifle and an american flag when i
said nothing .
i looked at m ' cola .
damn bad thing not to get sleep .
' ' consider me not a colonel .
at the military school where he prepped for princeton , and played a very good end on the football team
and we got a lot of things with it but the best one was a magpie .
but the labels soaked off .
' shenzi , ' he said , which meant a wild man .
here i could shoot and fish .
" my knee did not bend and the leg dropped straight from the knee to the ankle without a calf
it was very late .
" je veux shooter les rats d ' eau .
how was the show ?
women are a nuisance on safari .
“no , sir .
jack poured one for me and another big one for himself .
" " we ' ll have two more martinis .
” “get some water .
they often had the most flattering inscriptions .
i can remember you throwing me into the bow where the wet coiled lines were and feeling the whole boat
you don’t have to have me .
not the humiliation of a steady using .
don’t worry about her .
his feet and started the pivoting and the weaving pulling that brought in all the line he gained .
looked at them and his heart was happy because of the brown nets and the wicker fish traps and the
” “are you an officer ?
it was not conspicuous and it had been there a long time .
" " by the way , where is bill ?
' doumi , ' garrick whispered .
" " have you got any more beer ?
” “in this fellow henry’s room where the crap game is .
" " what ' s he like ?
he went over and took hold of her arm .
you climbed a fence out of the woods and the trail was hard in the sun across the field with
then he thought , don’t get excited .
one hour light .
“i would like all comrades to drink to me and then i will describe the scene in all its horror
the lance and falling to the left side to keep the horse between him and the bull .
against the wooden case .
complete with tumbrils .
" can you see the sheep on the hillside toward the point ?
“say it to me in italian , ” said the young gentleman .
finally i found blood on a grass blade about fifty yards up the valley and i plucked it and held
" good-night , jerry , " jack says .
he had hurt her .
' we could plant a few trees if we found a place with a big enough garden .
and he would smile his deaf man ' s smile (you had to throw pebbles at him to make him
“flat , ” i said and pushed her down .
have you ever seen that end of the thing ?
hop deserved that .
' did you see the head ?
the water was lapping in the piles and the point was dark across the bay .
' m ' wendi !
' ah , but i can see it coming .
“tu , paco ?
where you die does not matter , if you die for liberty .
that is the real end .
cold water and looked at the coals and thought .
what have you broken ?
he hit again but this time pretty good and he scooped in the quarters and gave a quarter to blindy
the bull has such force that the horns rip like a knife , they stab like a bayonet , and
“he’s too damn close , ” zurito said .
he wrote very long poems very rapidly .
they had this knowledge shared between them and it was for this reason and for a true , good hatred
nickie !
" christ knows he can ' t have gone .
“these woods make us too solemn .
” one of the stretcher-bearers came in .
” he went over in a corner and sat down to read a book .
came down—we always came down .
, and looking down he saw a pink sifting cloud , moving over the ground , and in the air
i went back to the stern .
” “i will describe it eventually , ” said baldy .
it looked like spain , but it was wyoming .
the wagon went along the road through the woods .
_num_ straight south and into the beautiful wooded country that ran down toward the gulf coast .
been .
were not frightened by any noise we made and ate on steadily .
“do you like to dip your bread in the ham fat ?
” “i am not active any longer .
" " i ' ll make you tell me " --he stepped forward-- " you damned pimp .
at his father sitting on the screen porch reading the paper , and thought , “i can blow him to
had to get it for .
” “i am to take you there tonight .
off when he came back after dinner to the game .
and what difference did it make if he was or was not) had moved through the different arms of the
they have sent it around to his family .
“who ?
i remember the first time i found it out .
he called for corporal punishment the way a showing-off child does for a spanking .
he had lived ten years in chicago .
pain killer bottles and the flies that buzz do not kill the sweetgrass smell , the smoke smell and that
but by midnight he fought and this time he knew the fight was useless .
" christ !
” “i better go back and see george , ” nick said .
pinin walked across the main room of the hut toward the major ' s door .
it’s kind of spoiled tomorrow for me .
" is he , al ?
” “ever hear of it ?
” “god , ” said wesley .
i’ll try it again .
of nails , in the bottom of the pack .
i ' ll understand .
there were plenty of tracks .
about nine o ' clock in the morning they would start using the x-ray machine , and then the radio
the one thing that he hadn’t understood right had made him nasty .
' ' i know it from the gondoliere .
' it ' s sort of funny up there , ' the colonel said , ' and i don '
" asked the biggest one , who had very thick lips and was quite fat .
he stepped back and flicked it twice in the air .
“and as soon as they shut up afterwards they’d know it was us .
the road was dry .
jack just raises the left hand up and it’s in walcott’s face .
' you know i never drank a martini until we met .
” he felt too faint and he was lying face down on the floor and it was over very quickly
" " not a jam , " i said .
he ' s over in scotland now .
" " he comes here to eat every night , don ' t he ?
the trail went up into the hills and the cattle in the summer were shy as deer .
“what do they make it out of up here , onie ?
hollow log .
there ' s alvarito ' s mother ' s house , he thought , and did not say .
" is jack up yet ?
“and that ain’t all , ” the tall waiter said .
" " he doesn ' t add much to the gayety .
you shoot him .
" give me fifty lire .
ahead was the smooth dammed-back flood of water above the logs .
there were chairs made of natural cedar on the porch and in them sat middle-aged people wearing white clothes .
not like the woman pays and pays and pays .
' disgusting .
” “look .
“say it once more .
it was a long time since i had dined with a poule , and i had forgotten how dull it
little hope .
couldn’t you have gotten into some other jam ?
krum put his head out .
' ' the good writers are henry james , stephen crane , and mark twain .
mike stood by the side of the car .
the afternoon of the day we came into the country we walked about four miles from camp along a deep
i wish i could see him .
“he just threw it .
we don’t have to worry about him early in the mornings and late in the evening nor in the dark
“they don’t divorce much here .
get it for .
" he put on his muffler , his coat , and his hat .
i was watching them through the glasses and kzar was running well back , with one of the bays making
' ' i seem to remember a grant of some sort , ' pop was teasing .
what a gag that is .
” “we have to go , ” i said .
nick did not like to fish with other men on the river .
” “enrique , ” she said , sitting tight against him .
it was damp and clean where he had washed .
they ' ll probably be at the café .
he ' s a good boy .
“afterwards we can have the vélos ?
” afterwards they went down in the elevator .
the bull , striking into the wood from side to side with his horns , made a great noise .
" " don ' t be difficult .
arrested .
” jack says .
but i know it’s perfectly simple .
the mud of the bank was soft but there was dry earth underneath and i figured we could shovel our
" we were going to celebrate so , and instead we ' ve just had scenes .
i went to sleep and when i woke up i looked out and we were going very slowly and crossing
lies .
work as little as you can .
' ' conditions were not propitious , ' the colonel said .
nick followed it with his eye and caught glints of the water in the sun .
” the young gentleman sat down on the bank and jointed up a rod , put on the reel and
” said hogan .
“it is my responsibility .
brett came out putting on her hat .
and don’t you be scared .
” “oh , no , you won’t , doc .
' ' i _know_ i hit him .
doc fischer had suggested that any future editions should be further cross-indexed so that if consulted as to the treatments
' ' do you still care for me after you have fought ?
could gallop by the stands on their way up to the post and let everybody have a good look at
“just close that sandwich , will you , please , and give it to mister francis .
” “that sister .
, ” marie said .
we passed stands of rockets with long bamboo stems .
nick did not care about fishing that hole .
we drove fifty-five miles on that road in the dark night without incident .
droop handed me the stick , then took off his single garment , made a sling and got the buck
' he did just that , twinging on the bridge , but walking with his same old stride and only
there is no need to be unquiet about the cat .
" i ' ll take it , " cohn said .
existed were the bullfighters .
' i love you , you know , and i would like to share it with you .
" come on , " said brett .
it costs more now .
introduce her to another to go off with him .
he must have felt it when brett gave him her hand .
' ' but the portrait has value .
were natural cedar railings alongside the steps and natural cedar railings around the porch .
i doubted if there was a dog in the world could trail him now in that heat .
" don ' t be a fool .
" " you said it , kid , " agreed the short waiter .
“look at those black pigs drink .
than karl , but the kudu had become an obsession to him and he was not himself , nor anything
the game trail , stooping forward , trying to make no noise breathing .
" " i have to go , " mr .
his body no longer housed him fittingly .
“yes , signor maggiore .
“oh , ” i said , not quite understanding .
she was wearing jodphurs and carrying her rifle .
then i untied the bow line and the stern line and got back in the boat and held onto the
what happens ?
doctor wilcox .
birds and then fishes and then countries and cities and then kinds of food and the names of all the
" retana , " he said , listening .
all my life , he thought .
and the good headlights lighting far ahead .
it was bent and he straightened it over his knee .
stopping to search each one thoroughly with the field glasses .
the stairs to the back door .
garrick came up .
' ' he made a damned fine shot at that leopard , ' pop said .
drink some for us when we ' re gone .
moving along slow in a procession past the grandstand and the pesage .
captain willie went on shouting , “i don’t know where this place is where i seen you .
give it to me today for tomorrow .
it made me damned well sick .
the man who had been gored lay face down in the trampled mud .
oh , my god , il est crazy pour le vin .
” bill asked judicially .
over that part of the bus .
' ' he ' ll keep , ' pop said .
the spring house was in that creek .
but i never saw either of them again .
the wind , i loved the country so that i was happy as you are after you have been with
they must have blown the other one out .
' ' why don ' t you buy some good glass ?
“i have shot a proved collaborator .
rutting season , and that later they herded up together again .
, crouching to shoot in the dusk at the same time pop did , we cut down three that fell
“go out the door and across the lot , ” he said .
that may have been because it was just after a rain and the sun had not come out .
” we sat there awhile and i didn’t feel like talking to him any more .
i could just drift , he thought , and sleep and put a bight of line around my toe to
" i ' ll go and get them , " cohn said .
andreson , ” the woman said .
river , they always take you to the rotonde .
then it fell on the floor .
“how are you ?
' my god , ' i said , ' they ' re too tired all right to come , '
“what animal would you like to be , odgar ?
" " named harris , " bill said .
" take a good rest , small bird , " he said .
somebody will take me any day now .
' shoot the bastard , ' pop said , making a gift of him .
" the girl came in and laid the table for supper .
the pieces of meat that showed glowing below the sea as they turned to come once more .
this girl’s mother was and is a bitch and your mother was a bitch .
' i don ' t feel at all like being rough to-night .
he pulled his arm out and sat down at the edge of the road .
“oh , ” said macomber blankly .
he never used command cars , nor semi-armoured vehicles complete with sand-bags .
simpson ?
“i don’t need your coat .
" " you gentlemen are friends of cayetano ?
couldn ' t you write it out , and i ' ll send it in a letter to her .
did i know the chope de negre ?
hell , he can shoot .
single file in the moonlight across the slope , on up and to the top where it was easy ,
the breeze was coming up and we could hear it in the high branches .
' ' i ' ve lied four times .
' ' god damn it , pop .
then one chink put his head out and saw eddy standing there with a rifle and ducked back .
“my god , ” said macomber .
” in _num_ hemingway was already considering a new collection of stories that would take its place beside the earlier
i don’t want to interfere or influence you .
" what does the word cohn mean ?
" " she made me write that .
' ' frightful .
even in the shadow he was a dead black and shiny as he hit the sun , and his horns
on the table was an empty glass and a glass half-full of brandy and soda .
' by the way , ' the colonel said .
i remember seeing the lion looking yellow and heavy-headed and enormous against a scrubby looking tree in a patch of
manuel standing at the barrera , noticed that he hooked always to the right .
you tell him , ” he said to mr .
he never took a shot out of range nor let a driven bird come too close and he shot with
when the fifers stopped they all crouched down in the street , and when the reed-pipes and the fifes shrilled
certainly you do not want music .
“we’ll be in now , ” i said to him .
” “why don’t you care for him then ?
service in the end of the _num_ ’s .
“please , i cannot stand it .
you walk wonderfully and if i were here and saw you now for the first time i’d be in love
” “duran took the new race track .
camera .
turn around the bill and knotted the double rope and made it fast to the bitt in the bow .
a new swimmer on a shallow , shelving beach , into too deep water ; and he sought to reassure
i like to drink wine .
she is very intelligent , you know .
" " oh , say something more .
he was very fond of flying fish as they were his principal friends on the ocean .
” “your temperature is all right , ” i said .
i ' d rather like to pray a little for him or something .
i must save all my strength now .
we can have a lovely time .
on the way he gets one of the yellow odds-sheets with the starting prices on and kzar is only paying
to the chair legs and lifted the chair .
and i ' m fond of him , too .
over and started to play .
or to admire , you formed an _îlot de résistance_ against the flow of the morning attack of the purchasers
the land .
” “come on and get the bath , ” i said .
“nor a policeman nor one of those boys that sell cigarettes .
" " i know what you mean .
" it ' s in the cash box now and you can pay me .
' ' you ' re perfectly correct .
then up one of those timber patches and across those damned gullies .
when i finished i stopped in at donovan’s and had a beer and talked with the old man and then
“i was taking care of animals , ” he said dully , but no longer to me .
” macomber aimed carefully at the center of the huge , jerking , rage-driven neck and shot .
' ' you use the word our with facility .
" he leaned forward .
” “has he been alone since then ?
what i wish is , though , they would paint some good pictures of that high country up around the
" " and when you come back tell me all about it .
he walked home .
them , and we needed meat .
” downstairs , the doctor left three different medicines in different colored capsules with instructions for giving them .
he had the only steady horse of the lot .
' chapter xlv they were out on the road now and the early darkness was beginning .
' ' you know , i feel as though i did shoot it , ' p .
and a shirt and hide these so they’ll think i’m wearing them and i’ll bring soap and a comb and
” “wouldn’t there be snakes ?
he should not place himself in a position to lose .
the big farmhouse and walled court showed clear and yellow against the green hillside that was scarred white with the
" i thought i ' d sit here because i felt a little tight .
' kubwa sana !
spirals , widespread and unbelievable as he lay dead five yards from where we stood when i had just that
garrick was sitting straight up , dramatizing his awakeness , and the old man was trying to see the road
al came out of the bathroom .
the wanderobo sat with me in front beside kamau .
” “anything , ” he said .
” “it was very funny with the priest , ” said the sexton .
they were all lengths and sizes .
" it ' s no good doing a thing too long .
finally they started the train to get to a station where they could send for the state constabulary and send
” “good , ” said krebs .
it is easy to feel a heart beat under a black sweater knitted by someone in the family , and
him , the crowd demanded that he should be more than very good .
he liked the best .
' ' no , ' she said .
" " i was sorry as soon as i opened my mouth .
when the police came they held everybody there for three hours .
in the firelight i sat on a petrol box with my back against a tree and kamau brought the whisky
came down through the rift wall .
as long as a bull-fighter stays in his own terrain he is comparatively safe .
' maybe she can get out for a walk and shoot some guineas ?
" how can the man say he ' d mind now ?
" that was all right .
took a couple of deep breaths and dove over off the stern with the wrench in my hand and swam
" to a man who ' d come in .
“you know where , ” said tom .
you ' re young and you got good decorations and you look nice .
nick stood up and put on his clothes .
“oh , i say , ” said wilson , going redder than his natural baked color .
“what was yours ?
and decided that she might as well get what there was to get while there was still something available ,
“you get out of here , ” she said quickly and kindly .
on all the tangible things we had to show .
“the guard will pick him up , ” one waiter said .
it was right after the medals .
have to , of course .
" there are only two places , and they are occupied , " i said .
“you can read it , ” i said .
your tyres , ' the colonel said , and walked across the oil and rubber stained cement of the entry
do you understand ?
” the boys had picked up the cot and carried it around the green tents and down along the rock
" don ' t be a damn fool .
“i’m not now .
but she loves looking after people .
something is always tricking him , the need to do things other than in a regular order , or by
we started out with the brother ahead , wearing a toga and carrying a spear , then me with the
i can do nothing with him and he can do nothing with me , he thought .
" i felt in my pocket .
” “you are in love with this girl now ?
he and luz could hear them below on the balcony .
" " très peu .
“let’s have a look at him , ” steinfelt said .
" " you ' re nice , " edna said to mike .
they were just hitting him .
brett ' s face was white and the long line of her neck showed in the bright light of the
elliot had married her after several weeks of making love to her after knowing her for a long time in
" you ' re a fool , " mr .
" " i ' ll finish this , " i said .
i ' m sick , too .
we ran out of aragon and down to the bank of a sand river , half a mile wide ,
" or maybe she did not ask that now .
well , i suppose that we that live by the sword shall perish by the sword .
” “hi , wemedge , ” said odgar .
" after a while he heard his father blow out the lamp and go into his own room .
one came , finally , against the head itself and he knew that it was over .
" we had a good meal , a roast chicken , new green beans , mashed potatoes , a salad
" he didn ' t know what castrate meant .
" want to hear some more ?
her how he had kept himself clean for her .
can you get home all right ?
broken .
they were like a bunch of masai donkeys except for the beautiful straight-slanting black horns and all the heads looked
" " that is all right , " said mr .
' ' eee-eee , ' he crooned .
“only two bottles beer , ” she said .
toward the bank of the narrow , heavy-flowing stream .
stable and a canal ?
' ' ettore says he will call back .
' i ' m not going to talk to a picture .
" they want to see us in half an hour .
set .
' ' over the curve ?
crossed , his skis sticking straight up and his nose and ears jammed full of snow .
the members of the cuadrilla , who had been watching the burlesque from the runway between the barrera and the
" steve ketchel , " one of the blondes said in a high voice as though the name had pulled
papa , who was always very good at that sort of thing , suggested a quotation from turgenev to marty
i’m not afraid because i’m with you .
' ' tarahalla .
there wasn ' t anybody ever boxed better than jack .
” “that’s right , ” george said .
“mangez !
he could not understand duck-talk through a burlap bag .
" i never liked to hunt , you know .
" " splendid .
but he ' s got a damned fine lion and a big leopard .
" " that was a fine girl you had at the dance , and then went off with that brett
them right .
but listen to what i tell you .
a good two hundred yards and sent the herd off bounding wildly and leaping over one another’s backs in long
you haven ' t seen .
, and he was a champion .
he had a pile of saucers in front of him , and he needed a shave .
if i wake up by any odd chance i just think beautiful happy dirty thoughts .
then we all sleep .
“take these damned things and be a good man and buy me a drink .
rest now , old man , and let him work until your next duty comes .
“you ought to take some broth to keep your strength up .
" that sounds like a good idea , " cohn said .
heavy artillery to blow them out .
" i ' m hernandez , " he said and put out his hand .
” asked the waitress .
“and that the pain stops .
but these other roving bullets , in their great bands , live in blue water and travel through all oceans
give him a call day after tomorrow .
” “come here , ” she said .
" it hasn ' t any ether in it .
" " does this happen every night at your fiestas ?
i like it .
it’s good .
he stood with the pack on his back on the brow of the hill looking out across the country toward
the shutters were up and it was so cold you could see your breath .
“you got to have confidence steering , ” he told the nigger .
“that man will see you .
far away in paris , mascart had knocked danny frush cuckoo in the second round .
at the end of the pass the bull turned like a cat coming around a corner and faced manuel .
we didn ' t do any work .
” “no , of the marsala .
my dear wolf .
then we headed up through the woods , crouched , in single file , to try to get above the
he went on eating .
will you have some more coffee , mister adams ?
smaller .
” “oh , philip—” “shit , ” he said .
in back , the four picadors , mounted , holding their steel-tipped push-poles erect in the half-dark of the corral
with me .
” “they were ojibways , ” nick said .
“i know you haven’t got any guts unless you’ve got rum and there isn’t much on board .
" jerry , " says jack , " you can ' t have an idea what it gets to be
tied the bundle and put it in the landing net .
but there was a thing here that i never saw .
as the way he is , and then i’m all clear .
” he could not remember the words .
" " my dear , you are charming when you are drunk .
” i opened the door .
” “not permanently i hope .
he could hear his wife breathing quietly , asleep .
' but they say it ' s very pleasant hunting .
" what the hell ?
they’d have both gone well over two hundred and fifty pounds .
” “what about a drink ?
” “roger , tell me , did i really walk so it pleased you ?
“oh , my sweet christ .
it’s true now .
” “good , ” said william campbell .
" " no , i can ' t .
there were more than a dozen of them and they jumped and kicked like sand fleas .
you move .
" he asked the porter who had suggested sportsman .
outside in the street i went down the street looking for the shop that made leather wine-bottles .
" " as i recall , the arab was standing holding the camel .
" sure , " said retana .
don ' t be an ass .
” “i’ll pay you soon , ” he said .
what the attack will be , why we are making it , and how facilely it will succeed .
a very dry sound , have vivid colored wings , some are bright red , others yellow barred with black
" if sharks come , god pity him and me .
' the roman went on talking to me again and i listened carefully and ate another piece of the broiled
” one of the broads says .
he hadn’t said anything about it and he didn’t act that way at all .
he put apple butter on the third cake , folded it over twice , wrapped it in oiled paper and
” the girl looked across at the hills .
he must have known what it was about when she settled .
on the second floor up was a cut brass sign : hotel montana .
' it looks o .
are rotten and they lose confidence .
” he looked over to where the huge , filthy birds sat , their naked heads sunk in the hunched
” “it is thy problem .
learned from ida lupino .
maybe we move in different circles .
two in plain clothes went inside .
' ' then call the house and ask for permission .
look to the lashing on the knife and see if it has been cut .
spanish is a rough language , the colonel thought , rougher than a corncob sometimes .
they were the things i had known best and had been closest to and several were about the first war
' by evening , ' pop said , ' he ' ll tell us that he broke that off leg
” “as you wish .
“tell you a lot of things , ” al said .
" " it ' s all right , " bill said , " so long as you weren ' t
he wrapped up some fried chicken and two pieces of cherry pie in oiled paper from the top of the
, tendalla .
i can always come in on the glow from havana .
” “well , ” said macomber , and he smiled for the first time all day .
the first shot he fires into nothing .
" he wants the title bad .
' no , ' said pop .
it’s trying to kill to keep yourself alive , i imagine .
manuel picked up his suitcase and went out .
on his trousers , and lifted the carcass of the bonito by the tail and dropped it overboard .
we could see nothing .
" i was very drunk .
but they always made it up .
it was a fine place to work and we made a son of a blind for the camera on a
guy , one of those regular little roly fat guys you see around , but he sure never got that
oui , i said , mais ce n’est pas possible .
” the cook looked away from him holding his lips tight together .
he had a telegram in his hand .
' ' who was he ?
read the alexander hamilton institute .
, and agreed to without using anything but a forefinger to signal and a hand to caution .
i said that i had been in spain for a long time and that they used to have a phenomenal
and knew i had it .
” in the next machine was a major who had a little hand like a baby’s .
now you ' re reasonable .
, me ashamed at having been a four-letter man about boots , at being righteous against pain , at being
frightful blow to him when i went bankrupt .
they were playing the riau-riau music , the pipes shrill and the drums pounding , and behind them came the
what you win in milano you lose in torino .
better man and the better tracker .
, tied on leaders , and got ready to fish .
the stones are in my upper left-hand pocket and buttoned down .
just move around .
” “fine and dandy .
“pull , ” said the hoarse voice and from whichever of the five traps the grey racing pigeon came out
“i’m going back to the kitchen with the nigger and bright boy , ” he said .
" zurito called the waiter .
he walked just like his joints were backwards .
” “how much did you get out of last night ?
" you want to make some money ?
" we stopped and had a drink .
room , due to the silver covers on the dishes , came to them steady and as broiled bacon and
i could not make out whom they belonged to .
nick slipped off his pack and lay down in the shade .
the second matador slipped and the bull caught him through the belly and he hung on to the horn with
they have another bottle .
then we had to link up with the people who had been dropped , and take and secure various towns
you wake me up if you want me .
why don’t they bury the dead ?
“i asked just to be friendly .
the two in the leather coats and civilian caps came back over the ridge , walking together , and then
foot of a bluff .
the man had handed him the knife because he knew from experience the colonel cut closer to the shell than
bill was sitting at the table pouring another glass of fundador .
coffin walked the wife and two children .
" " why don ' t you send him down on the cable railway ?
“never ?
” “you said it , ” the other waiter who had come in said .
“hold very hard .
' i wanted to feel it because all last week , every night , or i think nearly every night
dancing with the manager of the coffee shamba , and with karl , to the gramophone , me shot full
' please is a pretty word .
usually , as people , they are very boring to women .
” they walked down the road to the concordia three abreast .
then it was the place where you dropped in to find out who was in town , or where they
” “it’s all right .
” “where can we get something to eat ?
' damn shame , ' pop whispered .
noble and more able .
” “ ’bout time you cover me up .
" what do they call it ?
_ ' part iii pursuit and failure chapter one that all seemed a year ago .
he must use a shoe-horn .
she was looking at him , holding the glass and biting her lip .
” someone had pulled the handle on a machine and blindy started listening to the whirr .
' ' you ' re coming on , ' i said .
“i got to go , ” said “sliding billy” turner .
" he has the type .
i ' ll tell the _gran maestro_ .
if you ' re caught we can always send the car back by kandoa , if worst comes , and
with my luck , if i carried a gun i would be hanged ten times a year .
he lived under the delusion that he could play the piano , but if you kept him away from pianos
when he talks about never writing again i know he ' s about to get started .
saragossa is bad , he thought .
' splendid , ' pop said .
” “don’t you believe it ?
“better leave him alone .
and then instead of going on to arusha they turned left , he evidently figured that they had the gas
' let ' s go and look at them again .
you probably think i’m stupid .
you get angry about a lot of things and you , yourself , dying uselessly is one of them .
it hit while both outfits were firing from the two traps .
i could stand on the letters of her name on her bow and my head was just out of water
to him .
“it’s driving west northwest at seventy miles an hour away from a fire that’s burning up what you care about
i had coffee out on the terrasse with the team manager of one of the big bicycle manufacturers .
he thinks it was me .
new continents and islands try to frighten you with disease as a snake hisses .
he was at a table with other bull-fighters and bull-fight critics .
she was practicing being a boy .
" he smiled as though there were something i would hear about .
" ah , yes , " said mike .
the young man was standing now , his mouth slightly open , listening .
late in the afternoon they were back with karl , his outfit , and forty m ' bulus , good-looking
we sat there in the train after lunch and i looked out of the window and watched the country .
” “but it’s simply inhuman .
you wouldn’t believe what just happened about that one .
but their manners were not good in respect to a man of my rank and age .
" my poor mother died when i was so young it seems as though i never had a mother .
the path was smooth and the dew was cool on his bare feet .
in the swamp mud , and then climbed up through the dry beech woods until he saw the lights of
over his shoulder was a long flour sack tied at each corner into an ear .
“seemed sporting enough to me though while we were doing it .
" i pray all night and i pray in the daytime .
but i don’t know how much .
you can’t fish like that without the best tackle you can buy .
fall .
un roman , ” fontan explained .
then fallen into a glacier and disappeared , and his bride was going to wait twenty-four years exactly for his
” he asked the gypsy .
" he turned to cohn : " go away !
manuel lay as though dead , his head on his arms , and the bull bumped him .
' ' that ' s bad , ' the colonel said .
it will be cool in the car , ” wilson said .
he always smiled .
there was no one in sight and he had left the car down the sunken road in front of the
“he gets a little wild sometimes .
he turned to me .
” “will you come over and watch me play indoor ?
you don’t wash the vermouth do you ?
” “you go to bed .
' can i go now ?
he was a fat man , very brave , and a good of icer , although addicted to fantastic shows
' he ' ll take you to the vaporetto .
“i can’t see any more , ” she said .
then steeply uphill until we were well up on the slope that rose behind the edge of the field where
' ' how can we go to sleep now when we have so little time ?
this wine gets awfully dreggy at the end .
' ' all members are well .
i didn ' t know anything about the cherokee , either .
arm and i went back to town and they put me under five hundred dollar bond .
there were thirty thousand people lived there once and they built that church to honour their lord and to worship
but i can’t .
there were other things that held him back too that he did not understand yet .
he soon became an acknowledged expert on bullfighting and wrote a famous treatise on the subject .
it was a nice hotel , and the people at the desk were very cheerful , and we each had
“none of it makes any difference .
this is hardly sweet at all and all the strength is still in it .
his arm on my shoulder .
“i’ve got to carry something , frankie , ” i said .
" " yes , " said my wife .
but i must kill him and keep strong to do it .
” “what range will it be ?
i went back to the small room .
“oh , ” said the second porter .
” “kid lewis , ” jack said .
a throttle to throttle you with .
" the barman went far enough up the bar so that he would not hear our conversation .
on , " mr .
we kills the savages ’ bulls , and the drunkards’ bulls , and the riau-riau dancers’ bulls .
" he said to tom .
you take good care of her .
” nick bit into the sandwich .
“i left some in the bottle .
" " let pedrico chop it up to use in fish traps .
the boy stood very straight and unsmiling in his bull-fighting clothes .
good detail maps .
” “god bless you , ” said the waiter .
' ' what ' s the bastard doing ?
" i handed it to bill .
we were excited that night because we had seen the three rhino and early the next morning while we were
this city .
i was going to go back but my wife she don ' t like to travel .
" " and am poorer than the birds .
i lay there for a while .
it ' s a good town to walk in .
' ' has he eaten ?
tell me what is joyce like ?
of a boat , manuel noticed the points of the bull ' s horns .
“no , ” my father said .
but it’s better to camp here .
he gave bruce two dollars .
and had made the tea before i was awake .
' ' i ' m going to run my hand through it and make it unkempter still .
stream .
i’d rather stay up with you for a while and then sleep when i got back down there .
” that old willie is a good skate , harry was thinking .
that was the saddest thing i ever saw with them , the old man thought .
” blindy went down the line of machines feeling in all of them to see if anything had been left
" " that ' s right , " he said .
" " i can remember it , " the old man said .
then he looked at the sergeant again .
helena slept until eleven-thirty and he had finished his second drink .
” “he’s the most intimate friend and closest adviser of ——— , said the other man .
” i got the car out to go to town .
beside roger at a table , said , “look , ” and showed him the tiny prickles of gooseflesh on
that’s not much of a stretch for time with the bridges and the towns .
' ' it sounded awfully jolly to me , ' pop said .
" " a north or south american ?
he had made a lot of money on his last book , and was going to make a lot more
" so he did that with the tiller under his arm and the sheet of the sail under his foot
called again .
all right , what was i going to do now ?
“you know i’ve got to have one good pic , ” manuel said .
we have had such a jolly good time .
” said the doctor .
the machine gun started firing before the driver’s hands relaxed and the car went into the ditch spilling the occupants
“not so long , wemedge , ” the ghee answered .
they ' re trying to make friends .
" can i offer you a beer on the terrace and then we ' ll take the stuff home .
of a state for a long time , and walking i used to make up sentences in swahili with arkansas
she has many troubles , too .
" he had pushed his straw hat hard down on his head before he hooked the fish and it was
he felt awful about it .
" i rather think they ' re not coming , " robert cohn said .
' they ' ll bring their own vodka , duty free .
somehow they always made me angry .
gunwale of the bow and confided more and more of the resistance to the fish to the skiff itself .
he buckled his wind jacket tight .
love to all the chaps , michael .
loving and leaving .
i hope i do not have to fight again , he thought .
' i couldn ' t tell she was a cow .
' ' it ' s as good a chance as any for rhino , too , ' pop said .
when an elevator drops you better turn in your suit , ” he said to her .
" " let ' s eat in the hotel , " john says .
that was because he had all that stuff too .
' papa , please try to act like a human being , ' she said .
” manuel rubbed his forehead with the back of his fist .
' ' nearly nineteen .
say the cherokee .
he sat up ; swung his legs carefully down ; they stiffened any time they were out straight for long
" that ' s not such filthy wine , " bill said .
” “thank you very much , ” claude said .
the town was getting ready for the fiesta .
“what’s the matter with her , harry ?
he was looking at nick .
only once in my life i ate at a restaurant in america .
they should be able to see the fish well if they do not fly too high .
” “oh , he takes bananas , ” the lady said .
" the little man asked .
“she should be useful .
the two of them were quite practical men and the vision of the honourable pacciardi defending the italian republic stimulated
as we went out of the door and turned to walk up the street , a big seguridad car drew
he did not have to think about them .
and you try very hard to take good care of her and not only that .
nick watched them a long time .
“good work , ” and he turned to grip macomber’s hand and as they shook hands , grinning at each
” “i knew that , ” he told her .
” he was looking away so as not to see what his father was doing .
, of his majesty ' s fifth fusiliers .
" " you want to hear the cucaracha another time ?
' ' he must be thinking .
one was on each side of baldy and he was nodding his head slowly .
" in all his greatness and his glory .
” roger asked .
” “i do .
maybe today .
' ' and how are you , supreme commander ?
everybody will write their book sooner or later .
the hipódromo .
you know that .
they just fired a few blank charges at us as we came in .
i put the mail on the table , went back to the bedroom , undressed and had a shower .
he looked around the room , saw us and came over .
and when my old man got off him , all sweating and happy in the place stall , and went
my god , i don’t understand that !
" all right , nigger .
no , of course not .
” the boy took the glass .
jim took a long pull on his way back to the house .
” “come on , ” said the lieutenant .
” “only perch .
” one of the men asked at the screen door .
we have some meat .
it was the first man he had killed that day and he was very pleased .
we will have fun .
than you are .
my father raked them all out very carefully and spread them on the grass by the road .
hadn ' t been ill a day .
kibo and i found him and i never should have told them and i should have kept him secret and
we’ve been having to make them in six weeks and there aren’t so many with a talent .
“how are the cabins ?
" " you ' re a funny girl .
film the attack .
centre all dancing .
' it ' s the light and the wind , ' pop said .
' he asked the girl .
just across the street were looking in .
” “let’s talk about it .
it was a hot night .
boat to break ice to put out the decoys ?
they also shelled you with heavy artillery fire and with at least one railway gun .
” onèsime said , “merde” and just then we heard a car coming very fast .
' ' that ' s very good of you , jackson .
_ _num_ st soldier_--take a chance on it .
” “into where ?
i ' ve got to bring him out of that and get his head down .
the old man came up .
knife off the table with his left hand and put it in his pocket .
" he stood there biting his lower lip .
“the dark is just the dark .
' don ' t kid me .
i have no understanding of it and i am not sure that i believe in it .
i couldn ' t have her marrying a foreigner .
” “that’s where you went fishing last summer , isn’t it ?
there were only clumps of bush and sanseviera when we heard a deep , throaty , cough .
' ' you don ' t want to stop anywhere for the night ?
why ?
' ' what kind of masters do you get ?
" he ' d be better not to do any work at all , " hogan said .
both of them .
italians came from a long way off to look up at the war monument .
" " nicolo , " para said .
' ' whatever that is .
" " poor , " said bill .
“that’s one of the best things there is .
and that’s the thanks of the republic .
they advanced steadily and then raised the bottles high above their heads , one bottle in each hand as they
' ' throw a drink into the brute and see if he ' ll quiet down .
now old eddy came back astern .
“i’ll be right out .
hopkins went away when the telegram came .
“would you like to be a fish , butstein ?
' ' is it right ?
the sun was behind a bank of clouds now and then in a little while the sky was covered completely
" that ' s where we ' ll go when funds get low , " brett said .
ice cream .
" whose wine is that ?
it makes a sweet hurt , but i think we would do better to find out what the _gran maestro_
m ' cola was folding the head skins .
“when they come again i locked the door .
i knew that with mountain sheep the rams all kept together in bunches until late in the winter when they
if you don ' t mind me changing my mind too .
” “yes bwana .
nothing happened .
" " oh , let ' s not talk about it .
but they always had him under wraps in france and , besides , we had destroyed his communications .
” “did they say anything else ?
she came in to get some things .
' ' thank you for the not always .
the early morning breeze that blew toward them was just stirring his dark mane , and the lion looked huge
you can remember that there was such a smell , but nothing ever happens to you to bring it back
s nothing to be done .
harry , ” he said .
“et vous , monsieur ?
” after about thirty minutes or so hogan and i went upstairs .
that’s no good .
as many as fourteen mines deep in certain stretches , so when the vehicles churned down to a new string
outside the paseo was going in under the arcade .
his wife looked out of the window where the light had come on in the square .
i was just joking roughly .
" do you believe the great dimaggio would stay with a fish as long as i will stay with this
“thank you , comrade , ” he said , in his odd french , and then spoke rapidly to the
his father looked down at him .
' ' i will , ' the colonel said .
” i watched him go down to the next house down the road , knock on the door , talk
" we went down the stairs .
" she owns the place .
there ' s plenty more i could show you , but i think we probably ought to roll now .
what he wore on each shoulder was a small eagle with wings outstretched .
was rising .
' _gran maestro_ , ' the colonel said .
“get that little thin mexican in here , will you , please ?
the people he knew now were all much more comfortable when he did not work .
" we drank three bottles of the champagne and the count left the basket in my kitchen .
” “i had a swell time .
, the picador was already half-way out of the saddle , lifting his right leg clear as he missed with
it’s old and wicked with lots of law and no justice .
smith’s .
but to me its artistic value far exceeded its scientific interest .
“i know comrade henry here is not , ” the little man said .
lo .
it started .
please come on .
the garrulous moor .
i hid the rifle .
" he was pulling his cheek before the glass , looking to see if there were unshaved patches under the
“take me to your company commander .
” “i’m a good man , ” he said .
you know the way a bunch of skins gets off .
i had gotten excited and shot at the whole animal instead of the right place and i was ashamed ;
this was the finest country i had seen but we went on , winding along through the big trees over
“i don’t have time .
" in front of us on a clear part of the street a company of boys were dancing .
jack was sitting there with his bathrobe on , he had his arms folded and was looking at the floor
“i’ve got a lot more than that coming to me and i’ll give you an order on my pay .
knew was a good bit higher because we went very slightly up hill through the brush to reach it .
' in those hills many buffalo , ' the old man interpreted for the now very excited roman who was
" i shut my eyes .
i did not want to see her .
one ?
“i’ve seen it before , ” claude said .
” “do you know what he is doing now ?
he was short , big-fisted and very dirty , with a stubble of beard about the same length as the
” “more than that when i come in , kid , ” walcott says .
" you were saying .
you come back here before you go away .
" why do you want it now ?
got her to watching the picador place the point of his pic so that she saw what it was all
tried to keep the cutting across the calloused parts and not let the line slip into the palm nor cut
out of the pack he got a folding canvas bucket and walked down the hill , across the edge of
' she whispered .
" let ' s have a drink , " he said .
this isn’t like the real dark .
" " that ' s too steep .
driving at speed , when the fish dropped .
“how much water ?
' ' i did have verbal dysentery , ' i said .
all the time jim was gone on the deer hunting trip liz thought about him .
i had been standing on the stone balcony in bare feet .
about madame .
whom it may concern , stating the bearer knew the country well and was a reliable boy and capable tracker
there was no one in the town at all .
" it ' s pretty hot , " the man said .
“you know the lad who was in here yesterday ?
" " what happened inside ?
' ' right you are .
" " are you married ?
” “didn’t i sleep though ?
but he might .
” “you can have the squirrel .
" i ' d forgotten what beer tasted like .
this is something we want to get straight .
he’s pretty big for the skillet , he thought .
' ' everyone knows everything .
he remembered the long-ago feeling of familiarity .
" " where did you go ?
” the sergeant moved his wrist under the table and looked at the little man’s face .
pretty sad .
” jack asked him .
“but i don’t want you to , ” he said , “i don’t care anything about it .
' ' memsahib _bathi_ , ' molo said hopefully .
the sun was high enough so that it did not shine on her face and the breeze came in the
horned beasts .
' i ' m really frightfully hungry .
stopped , swung forward , rose on his toes , arms straight out , and sunk the banderillas straight down
" i just heard them threshing around .
' from superman on up into the improbable .
now , the car making a turn around a bank and crossing a green , grassy field , we came
, or over-flunkied , in a city of great hotels and the colonel loved it .
he put on his trousers and shoes .
he had loved too much , demanded too much , and he wore it all out .
then , and his father would say , " they ' ve run up the flag .
i saw bluejays twice but the train was no good for seeing birds .
had watched the people , but he had seen the subtler change and he could remember how the people were
the tall boy with a very pale face who was to be a lawyer had been a lieutenant of arditi
' ' you have no kick .
it all into one paragraph if you could get it right .
“he’ll make a turn at the mouth and come back , ” harry said to the negro .
anyhow , his father was a great friend of my father .
my old man bets five thousand on kircubbin to win and puts on a thousand to place and we went
” “it makes now too dark to work , ” johnny said putting the cap over his telephoto lens .
his back .
her eyes had different depths , sometimes they seemed perfectly flat .
the two sailors whistled again .
" " we never agreed .
' i can see him without , ' she said .
" " i don ' t worry , " he said , " but i can ' t keep from
then he swooped low so he could look at the eyes of the wicked lioness who rose on her hind
and lately you don’t know whether the perambulator will push or whether the guys inside will push them .
" we went in .
that funny voice like he was singing and i gave him a quarter to page mr .
much food .
" this is the eleventh time my boots have been polished , " mike said .
" good-by , " he said .
could not touch him .
" so long , jake , " he said .
" " who is the greatest manager , really , luque or mike gonzalez ?
gin and tonic before lunch .
“i’m the man for you .
i looked up and down the tracks .
my forehead on the wood in front of me , and was thinking of myself as praying , i was
" how do you feel , kid ?
the car was stopped and there were two fellows crouched down by it .
it drew up tight on the heavy cord and he looked at it in disgust .
they ain’t anybody can have an idea what it’s like .
” or “thank you a thousand times , ” all of which you formerly said in italy to a man
” “and why does he do that ?
“mademoiselle !
when we leave here .
it looked like a big chicken coop .
the boy never looked away from him and claude bent over and kissed him on the forehead .
there were no clouds and i could feel the sun now , not just as heat but as a heavy
" you ' re a good boy , pinin .
“what did you do , you monkey ?
they ' re a strange beast , aren ' t they ?
it was cool inside the dining-room .
he ' s going to have visitors .
he watched the small coals of the fire brighten with the light evening breeze and he tasted the whiskey and
" " sure , " he said , looking at her .
“juma knows where he’s going now , ” his father explained .
then he baited another line and left it coiled in the shade of the bow .
it was a windy day with the sun coming out from behind clouds and then going under in sprinkles of
“that’s right .
loud mouth , the financial and , now , theatrical , genius who was giving a gesture-by-gesture reproduction of how
” “we were awfully lucky to get away .
they supplied their names to mike and sent for a fork for me .
they came up , all these things of the house , and you didn’t send any money while you were
' there ' s no hurry about getting back , ' pop said .
” “yes , ” said the other one .
bullfighters never became first rate ; but the descent from the luarca was swift since any one could stay there
it is better to be light-headed than to lose your strength from nausea .
you can be very encouraged about that boy mr .
they ate the prunes out of the tin cups and drank the juice .
“no difficulty , ” wilson said .
" " how old will i be when i get a shotgun and can hunt by myself .
” “i can’t talk the language well enough .
it was darker than ever inside and very crowded .
, and we had him put the back of the car down .
' ' good , ' the colonel said .
then i saw old pancho come around the corner of the wagon and step into the lee of the horse
dark blue punctures .
he smiled as only the truly shy can smile .
since i still loved to hunt i resolved that i would only shoot as long as i could kill cleanly
" well , does your ladyship have a good time here in paris ?
' but it isn ' t chambertin .
you have lots of money .
you might be mad about me when you came back .
" eat it a little more , " he said .
“nothing , ” he said , “anything .
' be kind once first .
” asked the girl .
“it was thus , ” said one .
“i’m sorry , ” macomber said and looked at him with his american face that would stay adolescent until it
out of the ear and ran in two bright streams down the wrinkled gray hide .
it’s a proverb .
there was a crest on the announcement .
" " you could , " bill said , " but you don ' t need to .
my whole back’s tattooed .
mounted the gun before he called for a bird .
" mike started toward him around the table .
" i voted against prohibition to please him , and because i like a little beer in the house ,
“of course you have to go on .
“what have you for dessert ?
" then he began to pity the great fish that he had hooked .
i think i’d better go on the way i did in the story .
once we heard tick birds and looking up saw them in jerky flight above us headed to the northward over
on holbrook .
” “i can’t replace it for under three hundred and sixty .
the guard reached the package of cigarettes back across the aisle .
, and they wound in and out through big trees as they drove .
” “castrate me .
it was covered with mud and was stopped beside some boats that had been pulled up beyond the waves .
she felt wonderful there .
the critic of el heraldo lit a cigarette and tossed the match at the bull , then wrote in his
" " i don ' t care about me .
the plane will be here tomorrow .
” but he put up his hand and rubbed out the words written in lipstick on the window .
" asked the one who did not drink .
” she brought her hands down from her head and clenched them by her sides .
it ' s wicked the way no one has come to see him .
, ' the colonel said .
' people talk at a table as though the waiter were stone-deaf .
i’d rather see him shoot than any man i ever knew .
think of what you can do with what there is .
i understood finally : he was asking if we had one of those , and i pressed the button of
" is that your name ?
it’s better than the radio .
what do you think of that ?
” “you think they’ll come out ?
" he feels very badly , " brett said .
t have him fishing with us .
nick looked carefully up the stream and along the hillside .
“the razor’s a delusion , ” he said .
i ' d show those bastards .
” “i’d leave that to you , ” mr .
" what is there to eat ?
“what’s the round ?
of the dolphin .
it had always been the same couturier .
all he knew was that he had once had marjorie and that he had lost her .
i can take ' em or leave ' em alone .
' ' m ' cola has been doing that with you too ?
' ' you can tell the others , ' i said in english .
they loved him for his talent , and because he was bad , and he was brave .
did you see their horns ?
“i was just here when it happened .
she’s too fat .
" you have everything .
but now there is always someone you do not know , who does not know you , who loves you
they were swearing at him and flopping the cape in his face .
" " big enough .
they were sitting on chairs or crouched on the ground with blankets and newspapers around them .
where was that ?
he took the basket from her and patted her shoulder .
” “why do we never go to pray at the tomb of my grandfather ?
how is the railroad business ?
he had the towel ready to chuck in .
pentothal but there was no question of administering it today .
so would you be afraid .
” then he felt embarrassed at asking it and before macomber could answer he went on , “we all take
" " he ' ll behave .
” he laughed , then tapped his stomach .
to windward .
” wilson looked at him now coldly .
" you are of the great translators .
also , he had much bad luck , and it was not all of it his own .
then i went in and had lunch .
" ' ' that ' s lovely , ' she said , and repeated it in a voice she had
” “i bought an alarm clock .
but i did save absinthe .
if they raced at tremblay he’d have them drop him in town on their way back to maisons and he
_num_ for _num_ , cefisidote is next at _num_ to _num_ and fifth down the list this kircubbin at _num_
" " four days , jake .
the right room .
' yes ?
credit that they respected it .
” she was very upset and almost hysterical .
strong and well armed that they had no other enemy .
now you are getting confused in the head , he thought .
you know damn well she can .
" " where did you know him ?
“if some of you doctors were shot you’d be different .
the valley and the man looked at her and at the table .
of course ; bread was the opium of the people .
these cartridges may no longer serve by then .
i ' m going to festa them .
nor see him .
" eddie says he going to come some night sleep in bed with you sister dorothy .
" it seems the bull-fighter chap was sitting on the floor .
' ' you ' re a good girl , ' i said .
” “then it must have been evans found the meat where he had it hung up in the old springhouse
“you’d double-cross your own mother .
“take this with water .
' ' and you ?
” “fifteen .
" " oh , brett .
and i’d sit out in front of the café de la paix and watch the people go by .
i was nuts about the horses , too .
there is much to do .
' ' you ' d get over it .
dammit i forgot to look at the cap .
" " mean everything in the world to you after you bought it .
you mustn’t .
“all you kids are tough .
“you watch me .
” “people speak pretty highly of the green lantern .
” “who the hell you think you are ?
they ' re liable to eat italian food , you know .
way he could , and yet he found varied reasons why he did not have to go .
he looked forward with a good feeling to reading all the really good histories when they would come out with
“there isn’t any need to ride me .
it would have been a great comfort to do it .
the hardest thing , because time is so short , is for him to survive and get his work done
it against the fish ' s agony and the fish came over onto his side and swam gently on his
“fruit , ” she said .
” “you know morgan and steinfelt , ” john said .
his short story about a motor trip with a friend through mussolini’s italy , “che ti dice la patria ?
maybe he has been hooked before and he remembers something of it .
quit .
the army had taught him that .
" " and god , what looks , " brett said .
" she could not believe him , but her voice was happy .
“don’t , jim , ” liz said .
it was almost impossible to fish then , the surface of the water was blinding as a mirror in the
i have seen him come into an hotel and change from his proper uniform into a crowd-catching kit to go
' ' maybe they ' ll have pictures of miss bergman .
already i was half glad the novel was gone because i could see already , as you begin to see
my father lifted down the bags from the dock and put them in the stem of the boat .
" what was it ?
he had been talking to george when they came in .
” “let’s get the drink , ” said macomber .
right out in front .
the sunken valleys where droop had seen the buffalo before the sun was up .
' ' let ' s have one , ' pop said .
i’ll just have to double up on the quantity of the sodium pentothal first .
" " i say , i do , you know .
the dead being men that the sight of a dead woman is quite shocking .
then the elephant had gone on into thick forest and david had seen him ahead standing gray and huge against
i ' ll see you when i ' m dressed .
” “i’d go to the upper peninsula .
” “it is necessary to be very strong against something , ” mr .
what ' s the matter ?
" they ' re regular elephants we ' ve got to-night , " the boy said cheerfully .
“tell him to drop the next pair on the right , ” he said to the kid who started to
" " are you all right , billy ?
he works hard .
dark and there was water standing in the street and no lights and windows broke and boats all up in
” “maybe the boy meant it for a joke , max , ” al said .
it was like when you shoot in a nightmare .
he was inside the booth telephoning .
' ' yes , ' he said .
that won ' t make any difference to me .
“pas moi .
” “you talk like a book , ” she told him .
" old mike , the gambler .
' because we are always liable to get it .
door after her .
“this isn’t chicago .
so we went back to the camp , down the hill in the dark , edging down on our shoes
what i know best i learned from the krauts , studying them and opposing them .
towards the first salt place which was in the open to the left of the trail .
after the first two passes with the cape romero knew exactly how bad the vision was impaired .
it gets me worried , though .
" " we ' d better get cleaned up for supper .
she was with a gentleman .
she kept looking away from me and looking ahead at the wall .
' ' could you tell me any anecdotes , and we stop talking about this , which is my true
i hope you ' re not the type of jerk who worries about what happens to him when there '
“you speak spanish .
he took a drink .
" " she is all around me , " he said .
and i do not remember a night on which you could not hear things .
" she put out the cigarette .
' ' don ' t say rough words .
" drunk , " i said .
" i just love sheets , " he said .
was about the same in one as in the other except you ate better in the pilot probably , although
deadened him .
” “pass me a piece of hindu trader , ” another very wicked lion said .
" the eleventh .
are walking .
water buf alo and cattle were hauling carts through the mud .
his sister put down the sack she was carrying and said , “they’re sleeping like pigs , nickie .
the crowd applauded hernandez as they marched across the arena .
" " you hear what the reporters said about him ?
' then i know how he should go .
“i could fight good then , ” he said .
the elevator was no longer running and i watched them go down the stairs .
" veuve cliquot ?
" " just one stuffed dog .
' politics , women , drink , money , ambition .
“don’t you be worried .
a market is the closest thing to a good museum like the prado or as the accademia is now ,
we’re coming .
“how’s that ?
“it certainly doesn’t act like it .
farm , of how , through turgenev , i knew that i had lived there , as i had been
the trees had grown tall and the branches moved high , leaving in the sun this bare space they had
i don’t want you useless .
“they’d make good bait but we don’t need bait now , ” he said .
he could not see the fish ' s jumps but only heard the breaking of the ocean and the heavy
no time and no place to go .
what kind of a dirty business at this time of night !
there was no one else in the dining-room .
" bill laid down the egg he was peeling .
they were nice-looking fellows all right and i would have liked to have done them the favor .
" and it is really the first time you ' ve been divorced ?
hope the silly beggar doesn’t take a notion to blow the back of my head off , wilson thought to
a very fine attack .
maybe the plane will come .
i know some pretty good ones .
maybe , he thought .
" i told the driver to go to the parc montsouris , and got in , and slammed the door
" we didn ' t pay more than that at a big hotel .
it was bicycle road-racing did it .
sky .
they had used it in the naming of this one , which was named after a particularly notorious multi-millionaire non-taxpaying
' ' then don ' t strain , ' the colonel said , ' and you will never get piles
animals .
” “the second .
“just like you want him , ” retana’s man assured him .
to sweat .
' ' what about lunch ?
' ' he is splendid .
he bought the blacksmith shop from old man horton .
“i thought maybe you were .
” this was no better .
” “you never went to the dog rocks nor to elbow key .
" " a wife would be no good to him now .
it could have been a marlin or a broadbill or a shark .
sect and watch the noble exits that they make .
' _good , good_ masai .
jack stood about half a head taller than he did .
” “can’t we send beaters ?
the boys have the wood all ready and the grass to make the smudge .
and prayed oh jesus christ get me out of here .
in the dark in the storm they just missed it ; raining the way it was they couldn’t have seen
not like those yellow bastids we had the first day .
stopped on the bridge and looked down the river at notre dame .
nothing could be more jolly than the hyena coming suddenly wedge-headed and stinking out of high grass by a _donga_
alice was crying so she could hardly speak from shaking so .
' ' it is a very lovely portrait , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
you understand me , he made some reservations , but on the whole the book to him was sound .
when the twinge came , the colonel said to himself , the hell with that .
he certainly was a socking-machine .
it was bound in limp leather and fitted his coat pocket and he had bought it at the advice of
took money out of the cash box to do it and now what ' s happened to your mother ?
oddly enough we’re interested .
the north-west .
you don ' t mean anything to me .
a little water had come in through the starboard port onto one of the bunks was all ; so i
" no , i don ' t like paris .
i do not know an italian .
' ' everybody ' s right until he ' s wrong , ' his best friend said , adding ,
' ' i believe he feels just the way you do about it , ' pop said .
“all right , ” i said to eddy .
" " he would make a very good member .
scalp .
what you bought for provisions going over and back .
they were wider than a man ' s hand with his fingers spread and the fish ' s eye looked
he had drawn the attack and he felt now as he used to feel in the old days before he
' ' drink a glass of this .
and sometimes it is only blue sparks , and what is the dynamo driving ?
his nose .
there were plenty of other people in the car but none of them looked very interesting .
” “where is he shot ?
all fixed up .
" " i laughed about it too , myself , once .
and how is your dear mother ?
my son " --he pointed the razor at me-- " go west with this face and grow up with the
the others i do not know .
i taped it around the wrist and twice across the knuckles .
it was like a country town .
i’ve just got a good edge on .
the girl went into the house as peduzzi pointed .
but the face of this officer looked like the face of a man during a bombardment .
they carried spears and they were very handsome and extremely jolly , not sullen , nor contemptuous like the northern
i walked toward the camp site with the roman who was talking steadily in a language i could not understand
' i whispered to pop .
the major , who had been the great fencer , did not believe in bravery , and spent much time
little bit in his coffee .
' you black chinaman .
forty minutes or an hour .
across from us , the property sailor had not moved .
he’s really come .
from the next murderous frontal attack .
we paid it all .
young regoli standing up to the outdoors bar , cool and kid-looking , and i said , “what’s the matter
walcott came up to jack looking at him .
“i command .
” “two hundred when you agree and a thousand when you load .
” bill’s voice very deep and bass over the water .
saw him jump first .
how is he ?
his youngest sister let him know they were waiting for him .
he went on and as he came around a turn in the mud bank a young second lieutenant with a
” “i wish he’d killed juma , ” david said .
couldn ' t recognize the shore .
" they ' re razzing don manuel , " bill said .
romero ' s brother , holding the bull ' s horn in one hand , the knife in the other
' ' perhaps .
“no deep .
' ' well , you know now , ' the _gran maestro_ said and did not finish the sentence and
there’s one shell .
the shaft of the harpoon was projecting at an angle from the fish ' s shoulder and the sea was
they began to bubble , making little bubbles that rose with difficulty to the surface .
t , you never missed when it was really important , he was sure of that , that was one
he took the bottle , drained it to the last bit of froth and crouched by his meat sticks holding
elephants that had come onto the elephant road from the heavy forest on the left of the trail .
damp , sandy , ordinarily dry watercourse that led through the trees to the upper lick .
" i will ride on the outside .
' ' come , come , ' said pop .
" i stretched and rubbed my eyes .
” “if i saw you across the room i’d be in love with you .
” “i hate the moors , the english , the french , the italians , the germans , the north
“what do you want me to do about it ?
“that’s a good name , ” manuel said .
' but i ' d rather dante wrote it .
“all right , mr .
help me , arturo .
i mean no one will hear about it , will they ?
i’m going to need him now .
” “what papers do you read ?
” “i think i’d better stay with you to be sure .
" it was a long walk and the country was very fine , but we were tired when we came
” they had reached the height of land and from here they could see the lake again although from here
" " i think so .
so while now i am fairly sure that it would not really have gone out , yet then , that
” “again and again , ” he said .
or an old , big coyote when he is not hurried .
you ' re only a case of arrested development .
” “i am sure not .
“take this one and that one and foute moi le camp .
about the half-wit chore boy who was left at the ranch that time and told not to let any one
the wind blew the dust clear after each shell so that the house kept showing plainly through the dust as
” “then what ?
” “you were wonderful .
i ' m going to try to write a study of them .
the grain was just beginning to ripen and the fields were full of poppies .
" " fight , " said mike .
they were from two to three feet high and when i touched one it was quite warm .
' ' we ' ve got to get out .
we were making the film on almost nothing and all the money was in the cans of film and the
the only way to make it would have been for one man to go alone and crawl and then it
” “oh , hell , ” his sister said .
of .
he could ruin me by jumping or by a wild rush .
oh , you’re too sweet , ” she said .
" " i don ' t know , " mr .
' ' from the start .
i followed them up-stairs and went into my room .
hotel said that he was working .
we skirted the edge of the open patch and then , ahead , there was a crash and i saw
” “oh , wemedge .
he knew , too , that they all respected him for this .
” “all right , ” nick adams said .
“take it easy , wesley , ” the man told him .
like to talk about things that interest us both .
then nick heard the clink of ice against a bucket .
“you rummy fake santa claus .
burnt off .
i’ve really got a grasp of reality now .
but it was because he was sick his father had told himself .
of course they wasn’t brother and sister no more than a rabbit , but there was a lot of people
" the boy went out .
“it’s nice here .
through duller country .
” “i’m pretty sure there’d be a lot .
’” “on christmas day , too , ” doctor wilcox said .
' ' he may charge , ' pop said .
” “they would not have baggage .
or will we all have to move to canada ?
“that’s a good joke , ” said odgar .
he did not recognize it .
' ' i would probably end up as an unnecessary please myself .
he ate the sandwiches and dipped his hat full of water to drink , the water running out through his
a pillow between my legs and my arms around another pillow and lay there very quietly .
" brett said .
bill was very happy .
” “what’s that ?
" " you mean that you won ' t .
” “a mile or so up the stream .
afterward the waiter brought beefsteak and fried potatoes .
” “we can get some more this evening .
we kill them .
now he had six reserve coils of line .
i went clean around the outside of the square and never even looked over toward the crowd there was coming
so , just then , to crown this fantasy , the lights of the car showed three tall , conical
" they seemed to quiet down awfully fast .
it will uncramp though , he thought .
all were travelling away from the famine .
" see you back here .
' why don ' t we have any smells from the kitchen to cheer us up ?
comfortable canvas chair in the breeze and the shade .
she looked up at him .
, a line of beach with fishing-boats and above , on the side of the hill , a town and
he looked up the track at the lights of the caboose going out of sight around the curve .
" is your husband american too ?
the way i can’t stop getting .
‘i loved her fine .
” said nick .
” “i never knew anybody as fine , ” she said .
he went down on his hands and knees and looked at us .
in town we took a taxi up to the shelby .
nobody ever killed them in mass , as we killed krauts before they discovered _einheit_ .
” “you be careful too , ” helena said .
ain’t you mixed up in the prices of things that we eat or something ?
” “you’re not afraid , are you ?
' as true as i can tell and let it hurt who it hurts .
" the cook turned away .
go to the dance .
later , at the fire , he asked me where we had gone and i said we had hunted around
reading light fell off the iron bedstead and hit mr .
“did you read the forest lovers ?
where would you go if you were him ?
” “no i haven’t , ” i said .
" he poured out another bottle of beer .
the other is down one floor below the level of the square and has a door that opens on the
“you propositioned me .
manuel set down the jug and watched .
“slack it to him !
to play at night of their own accord .
” ‘when you drink this it makes you feel as though you could do anything , ” the girl said
garner , ” his wife warned .
” “maybe we will see them in the morning , ” she said .
" he pressed on the iron and clearly showed he was no horse-lover .
he slept at a hotel and came aboard every morning .
“but it comes back on them every attack .
“you stay away until things quiet down .
the forest .
' ' i would wish to be a soldier if i could fight under you .
there were long benches , and tables ran across the room , and at the far end a dancing-floor .
looking back , i had asked him nothing .
' the boatman took the flask and drank deeply again .
besides just mortaring it all to hell and having all the fire-lanes taped for machine-gun and automatic weapon fire ,
where did you stop there ?
“hello , popularity , ” jack says to walcott .
“i don’t know , ” i said .
" his voice was not the same , and his mouth was very dry .
_num_ st soldier—didn’t you follow it , george ?
“watch him now .
” “take them off and dry them and i’ll get you some , ” bill said .
and if they tried to make her she would curl up inside of herself and be hard and slip away
station and brought up here to be let out of their cages into the corrals .
elliot could stand it .
if it relaxes in sleep my left hand will wake me as the line goes out .
' only it is the main muscle .
" he asked al .
" listen , boy , " doc fischer said .
” “that’s the dinner , ” george explained .
“are you all right , darling ?
' ' there ' s a boat doing that over there , sir .
whatever this was they wanted it very badly .
after the siren on the recorded announcements came a crying baby which the announcer said would be satisfied with malta-malta
when the wind was in the east a smell came across the harbour from the shark factory ; but today
he shouldn ' t mix in that stuff .
or the stories are anyway .
" i ' m the only one here that ever knew steve ketchel and i come from mancelona and i
then we all went down to the stream and kamau and i rigged ropes around the tyres to act as
" " he ' s just a young bull-fighter .
” “how are you ?
" it must be twelve hundred metres .
i want to get back in that crap game .
" " georgette .
with a hyphen , you know .
” “i’m really all right , ” she said then , leaning over , away from the englishman .
you are crazy .
” “you were splendid today , ” his father said .
he could feel its weight but see it growing in buoyancy in the skillet .
“is it the nocturnal tomorrow ?
" ici , c ' est une maladie , les books .
he started to cry .
i’ve often wondered why .
' or careless or unkempt ?
i never even looked in his pockets .
' ' do you think it breaks for me ?
frazer received no picture of denver from the radio .
" hell , " john said .
" get a rake , nick , " he said to me .
that was one of my father ' s favorites .
it may be called for either by myself , in person , or in writing , or by the person
he got one out from under the loads in the back , we were going through the deer-park-looking country now
both .
” “if you have to go away , ” she said , “is it absolutely necessary to kill off everything
elliot had prevailed upon him to send over to boston for her girl friend who had been in the tea
' you have arranged a plan of campaign ?
, except the noises were in miniature from the lack of power .
where they stood it was dark .
“we work always on this damn camera .
' why are you not more interested in the natives ?
" si , señorito .
' ' no , sir .
” ‘not when i started .
i’m just talking through a sheet .
" he writes the books himself , " he explained to madame .
he crawled steadily , thinking hard , giving no importance to the pain .
be a damn fire eater now .
listening , homesick for it already .
finally he lost it all .
' ' we can have something to eat .
' ' i ' ve read things by him , ' she said .
” “let’s not even put the light on .
maybe he is not an ex-fascist , too .
“oh , fine , ” jack said .
you’re young and you got good decorations and you look nice .
" i would advise you gentlemen to get some sandwiches .
but it needs an engine .
the boat moved ahead slowly and he watched the airplane until he could no longer see it .
there ' s one shell .
it was not the way either of them painted .
then she was gone and the colonel was alone , with the worn pavement , the wind , which still
wished we were just going on a fishing trip and not going away .
pas être catholique .
" " come on , " i said , " we must go in and eat .
he rose to a slight up-run and then the snow seemed to drop out from under him as he went
" " i ' m not sorry for him .
to-day ' s going to be bad enough as it is .
he shook hands with us , smiling in his embarrassed way .
" " he gives me the willys .
the other spoke in spanish .
" that son of a bitch , " fontan said to himself .
at first hubert had no idea of marrying cornelia .
" madame fontan said .
a quarter of the way around the ring to the left .
montoya could forgive anything of a bull-fighter who had aficion .
" " but you don ' t mind , do you ?
’ things like that .
it ' s hell .
this was a light epidemic of flu and there was no danger if you avoided pneumonia .
" " where are you going ?
she waved to them as the car went off through the swale of high grass and curved around through the
then in two or three turns more i will have him .
" doc fischer said .
offered the man one of the bottles of wine .
" why ?
” “not until we come to it going the other way .
” “couldn’t you maybe make it if you wrote cheerfuller things ?
' her voice was so lovely and it always reminded him of pablo casals playing the ' cello that it
we made a long circle through there but found nothing but a fresh hyena track and a cow kudu track
” “is it too old to read out loud to me ?
' couldn ' t i be you ?
we went along quite fast , but walking carefully , and below us , now , the stream bed was
" this fellow was just a punk , you understand , a nobody he ' d never seen before ,
the river looked nice .
over-foliaged country , he had seen guns hidden under screens of mulberry leaves to the left of the road ,
it was a grasshopper lodging house .
" yes , " said my wife .
” “he didn’t want to drink with me , ” said the sexton .
but they always lifted it and moved it back ahead of the attack .
he had a difficult time breaking out , lifting and dropping the small anchor but he got it over ,
but there is only you .
i’m really like the snoring one at the table says he was .
he cleaned out the two-quart tin pail he’d made tea in and filled it with cold water from the spring
nick lay in the bed with his face in the pillow .
he begins to chatter .
i knew we still had a chance on the lick in the morning and i was not going to worry
the barman poured it for him .
he knew then how much it meant to him to have seen the elephant in the moonlight and to have
and under the shade of the arcade that runs all the way around the square .
it was simply priceless .
" " kansas city , " i said .
" " do you want it with water ?
first there was the birds , then me , then the greeks , and even the birds got more out
use one of those , ' the driver said .
he did not really want to get at the horse .
sent him back to his wife .
” “you need it too badly to pay for your own mother’s grave to keep your mother buried .
he was very hungry and he wanted to make his camp before he cooked .
handcuffed to him hanging back .
” “he said .
' the one i love and must think about all week .
” “not like this , though , ” hogan said .
" they must think something is going to happen , " brett said .
he looked to his right and saw the first duck a black patch on the same ice .
the other people did not look too clean when they came out from the body of the halftrack .
he had only one ear .
once we heard the tick birds and saw them flying , but that was all .
no one had spoken to him all the time we were at lunch .
he did not change his direction and the men shouted : " hah !
not a military operation .
face , she read enormously , liked to ride and shoot and , certainly , she drank too much .
he had breathed in deeply as he took off and now went on and on through the water , holding
“watch he doesn’t get up , ” wilson said .
the bull and curse him , and when the bull charged he swung back firmly like an oak when the
he would have to crush many of them , slamming at them with his hat .
when we have killed so many we can afford to be kind .
” “do you think you’ll get to love me ?
" i ' m going over to the hotel .
he brought the frying pan and the coffee pot from the stove and sat down beside me and we ate
" tommy asked .
“tell him he is mine , ” she said .
can .
she was shocked and said that i could not write it because it would be prejudicial to the cause of
” “i am a veteran of the eritrea campaign , ” said the adjutant stiffly .
i’d have been glad to do them with you .
spitting tiny flashes and the men behind them were toy men who lay flat , then crouched and ran ,
” “have you got the two hundred with you ?
i don’t even know that i can get them up there .
i ' d kill him like that .
the colonel and jackson lowered themselves into the launch which looked like a speed boat .
why don ' t you pay me the money you owe me so i can leave ?
“it was foolish to keep the bird if the house is supposed to be empty , ” he thought .
and she had on one of those silk dresses that change colors .
' ' you ' re damn right they will .
' ' walked along a goddamned road .
she was built with curves like the hull of a racing yacht , and you missed none of it with
" " the hell he wasn ' t .
_ a good bull .
” “fine .
could it have been hunger that made him desperate , or was he frightened by something in the night ?
" " how do you do ?
" he grinned .
david reached behind him and closed the dog’s jaws gently with his hand and then moved softly and unbreathing to
” “oh he’ll get the treatment .
" " it was all so sudden there wasn ' t any time for it to bother anybody .
the street-light came on outside the window .
" the fellows who were with him laughed .
the magic would come along the shore in a rowboat , spot the logs , drive an iron spike with
see clearly what he was packing .
" is it the nocturnal to-morrow ?
music came out of the door of the negre joyeux .
” “he’s going to make sense , ” another flyer said .
when the song ended with the sharp riau-riau !
i did not know that , but had shot , deliberately selfish , to make sure of the best this
if one ever hits with the drag on he’ll jerk you overboard .
" here she goes , " manuel said to hernandez .
we go through the slashing and then some more road and then another slashing and then we come to virgin
after the war i am in germany .
also she had old pieces of hindu trader under her claws .
m ' cola looked on all this early shooting as a series of lucky accidents .
along with these went gambling , an opium of the people if there ever was one , one of the
they were nearly all office workers , i believe .
" thank you , so much , jake .
we left the vehicles where they were and washed up at the pump in the farmyard and red put iodine
she was suddenly disappointed .
i remember the snakes burning in the fire in the backyard .
“i won’t have carl talk that way .
that ' s a nice word .
i want you .
it must have been half past three o ' clock when i had gone to bed and the bands had
" i know the real reason why robert won ' t marry me , jake .
don ' t you think he has the nicer face ?
” “listen , pepé , did you pick up a certain luis delgado at chicote’s ?
that aimless turn had made me see him , slow and hard hit , getting ready to go down .
the hospital was very old and very beautiful , and you entered through a gate and walked across a courtyard
maybe you will get to like it .
do you know , that , among other things , you smell good always ?
” “i saw your friend , prudie .
“i know it , nickie .
it was a _num_ -grain solid bullet from the springfield and it had raked him , going through lungs and
“i have confidence .
he couldn ' t get up , brett said .
” “i cook it , ” said john .
it’s not snow and them all saying , it’s not snow we were mistaken .
” i asked the other one .
it’s perfectly all right for you to look .
bill put in a lump of ice .
zurito had his head down once , but he ' s come back .
' ' no , let ' s go in .
nearly everybody did that .
worked .
we will retake and they will all be hung upside down outside of filling stations .
what kind of blood is it in a man that will let that be done to his mother ?
“i feel as though everything was gone to hell inside of me .
the innkeeper was disgusted .
he just knew it wasn’t rock .
the machine was beating them .
" it ' s yours , mike , " bill said .
" when did they get in ?
outside the café there was a great crowd .
the tanks had failed again that day , and the drivers coming down from the lines in their leather helmets
“he draws it , manolo , ” retana said in explanation .
“he has no fear , not even of the aviones .
he used this instead of a ticket .
” “sure , ” nick said .
it was too much like being in a trap and there was p .
if i can see his ears , the skinner can work on him .
didn ' t you see frances ?
montoya was standing there looking more embarrassed .
would jump while i was trying to make the shot certain , but remembering pop ' s ' take your
did fossalta never get over the first war ?
" " what do you suppose he ' ll do ?
they had fought , too , in the earlier stupid butchery on the isonzo and the carso .
we tried it on the front door and the back , but it wouldn ' t work .
“vice , ” said the brown young man , “is a very strange thing , james .
his face had the sallow , yellow look it got when he was insulted , but somehow he seemed to
” “look at him , ” i said .
see how long my conscience holds out and when i have to go i’ll go to it and not worry
“maybe we’ll never go skiing again , nick , ” george said .
" i ' ve just had a message from them at the grand hotel that they want pedro romero and
“where’s jack ?
" i wish it were a dream and that i had never hooked him .
goddam them .
” came out from under the cap sharply at nick .
book .
moving as he stood in the forest , his head hung down with the weight of the tusks .
' there was silence produced and re-produced , by the striped waistcoated man with the fascist face and the colonel
you ' re very kind this morning .
and he smelled sweet and lovely like the breath of cattle and the odour of thyme after rain .
but when we do understand each other there ' s no use to pretend we don ' t .
“it’s intolerable , ” said michel .
' but she doesn ' t win any races , ' the porter said .
" here ' s the beautiful lady with the beer .
” “it’s comic , ” i said to the forceful girl .
he knew he hadn’t been to this place with andy though .
” he was feeling the warmth of the alchemist’s furnace starting at the pit of his stomach .
' the colonel heard the slap of the waves and he felt the wind come sharply and the rough familiarity
” they paid the check and shook hands .
the _fondamente nuove_ without a mistake .
give away medals in a night club .
” “it sounds pretty bad , ” his sister said .
the blind made a marvellous ambush and i was as confident and as sure of a shot at kudu the
you ought to wake up with your mouth full of pity .
" " what a hell of a reason for sitting with any one .
“can’t you put over what you can reach , wesley ?
arms swinging , the three matadors walked out .
' ' tea instead of coffee and whatever the _gran maestro_ can salvage .
you ' ll see .
“come on , ” said nick .
" i went out the door and into my own room and lay on the bed .
inside i could hear them talking but not what they were saying .
instead of spiralling high they made a heavy turn and slanted straight out .
' and he grabbed my arm .
as he came toward him , blinded , the lieutenant fumbled for his pistol .
i will show you .
there’s plenty for you to do .
few people know france .
” “it’s none of your business .
“i was only taking care of animals .
the lips there , still there ; then overwhelmed , and the pain gone as he sat , alone ,
“what if he floats up ?
” he glared at nick , his face was white and his eyes almost out of sight under the cap
now try and have some fun .
woman that he retains ; except what he does for his fatherland or his motherland , however you get the
but it’s wrong and it doesn’t work out .
i would come back to africa but not to make a living from it .
" " it will come , all right .
the razor blade shone in the sun coming through the window .
“the reef’s on the other side as you go in .
" and you ' re a hell of a good guy .
anna christie .
" i worry about property i got up in the bronx , i worry about property i got in florida
the other one , the first whistler , had closed fast and well , for a man who had been
all you had to do was use a pair of glasses without shading them adequately .
the smug one , more righteous now than ever , refuses .
” “that peasant , ” the innkeeper said , “today he brought his wife in to be buried .
“you think so ?
the bacon was curled brown on a fresh-cut chip of wood from the piece of fallen timber they were using
only knowing that it was beautiful .
, like a dog ' s but higher in pitch and sharply throaty , and was gone , making no
“i’ll try and be a good boy for you .
with coast guard and with planes .
then , to the authority , “they take you for somebody’s staff , you know .
he lived in seattle from two o’clock on , each night , hearing the pieces that all the different people
life go out of him as dirty water empties from a bathtub when the plug is drawn .
the top of the chimney unscrewed and the syrup poured from the chimney .
' ' can ' t you do anything kindly ?
" it ' s for you .
i step from under the mosquito bar into my drawers which are held for me .
we ' ve made some money .
wheeler and i’m a busy man .
she had a very perfect oval face , so perfect that you expected her to be stupid .
not like barcelona or lérida .
“you’re very mistaken , ” she told him .
” “you live up by evans’s .
a nearly dry water hole where sand grouse flighted in the mornings .
we wanted them to hit the cross roads fast and keep coming .
" i looked at the clock .
wanderobo-masai dropped out and sat in the shade of the scattered trees .
they were going after partridges so he pulled out the tube of the magazine and poured the long-rifle cartridges into
” “he likes it .
the gin was _num_ lire and is legitimate .
" you write the books yourself ?
as he heard their voices his tail stiffened to twitch up and down , and , as they came into
, and at whatever angle his wings drove him in full , low flight above the green grass toward the
it’s pretty late in the summer .
" " can ' t i , though ?
jim came over back of her chair and stood there and she could feel him breathing and then he put
sing would flop just like a fish , true , his loose arm flailing , but i got him forward
” “what do you keep on doing it for ?
” “we can’t do that .
" " you think so ?
he slid the chip of clean wood all the way under the cake , and flopped it over onto its
receive fifteen shillings .
walking along the aisle of the smoker i saw the two detectives and the two prisoners sitting quietly .
when he was in town their appeal to him was not very strong .
” “there’s a law against it .
” “have i ever been here before ?
nick went up the steps and opened the kitchen door .
rolling country , simply to walk , and to be able to hunt , not knowing what we might see
bucket with the ice and uncorking the bottle the gran maestro had uncorked and then placed a common wine cork
” people were hurrying by in the dark on their way home from the cinemas where they had stayed until
i embraced the wanderobo-masai and he , after a thumb-pulling of great intensity and feeling , slapped his chest and
well , that would be a damned good thing .
about the steers .
" " well , " i said , " take her with you .
' ' it is the usual room .
“in my father’s city men go on foot or in boats and no real horse would enter the city for
he could die just like a dog for all those mexicans care .
' ' yes , ' said dan .
” “good night , ” said the younger waiter .
” “well , i care about you .
they can talk all they want about playing them but people that have never horsed them out don’t know what
they were as different from the chicote’s waiters as black from white .
between my knees , pouring the whisky into a tin cup and passing it over my shoulder in the dark
' that ' s not fair .
and why do you hate the russians ?
” “it’ll be all right , ” the waitress said .
” “when will we see the birds ?
“i know how i am and i prefer to get stinking .
” “listen , ” the little man said .
' ' do you dislike him ?
nor any of the other signs that combat people show as surely as a fisherman ' s hands tell you
' ' i called twice , richard , ' the girl said .
“didn’t i tell you to keep your drag light ?
" maybe you would rather go to foyot ' s .
hard .
“there he goes in , ” he said .
he came from one of the islands and he spoke with great intensity .
dill pickle , the egg and the ham , and he smelled them all and the good early morning coffee
sometimes on the hardwood floor , out on the dock to where they were swimming .
" we are friends of he who wounded him .
the man who was getting ready to say something spoke to me very low , “must be like getting on
“i wouldn’t let her .
now he was proving it again .
some one had put it in the american women ' s club list as a quaint restaurant on the paris
right now they want more trout dinners than chicken dinners .
joe and mrs .
" don ' t be silly , " he said aloud .
it was dark early .
rage because one of our sailors had been most insulting to him .
" you were happy a minute ago .
" how do you know he ' s don manuel ?
' ' you can use _have to_ if you want , daughter .
dad .
it wasn ' t the way he talked , " peroxide said happily .
buildings ; before even the ice wagons come by with ice for the bars ?
he’d screwed the drag tight , and when the fish struck , it lifted johnson right out of the chair
all work is honorable as he says .
place of its own where many gondolas had come , in their various times , bringing hearty , cheerful ,
” david was asleep even before his father said good night .
he is wonderful and strange and who knows how old he is , he thought .
the café girls—and i believe they are still patriotic .
and all the wounded were wounded for life .
' ' he ' s dead .
" " and the best fisherman is you .
" " here ' s how .
but it’s not as much fun as making up the stories and it’s much harder .
" " you have the radio .
“i shot for the lowest part of him i could see .
then , too , he ' s dead now .
' ' say daughter three times straight .
" " around two thousand .
" " you haven ' t used it properly .
” “it’s the best time of year , ” nick said .
” enrique smiled in the dark .
then others write to profit quickly from the war they never fought in .
story .
“last week he tried to commit suicide , ” one waiter said .
it was rubbery and bending against the thrust of the boatman ' s oar .
i must say i wouldn ' t mind inheriting something these days .
“it seems more like a castle , ” marjorie said .
behind them were shelves stacked with supplies and goods .
, and the pouches under his eyes were all outside , so that now i saw him asleep the way
the swamp was perfectly quiet .
the roman did not call them tarahalla and that name meant nothing to him .
sand key light was plenty close now and you could see the boathouse and the little dock alongside the light
hogan came out the door and walked over to me .
you couldn’t hear on account of the crowd .
the colonel felt a little dizzy from the medicine and he let it ride .
yet they are still good .
“it’s my country , you see .
in the evening i can look straight into it without getting the blackness .
” “or that italian , ” the other prisoner said .
“boy it’s great .
” “i just meant it personally .
it too , and jack sort of lifted his shoulder sharp and caught him against the nose , and then
wanted to make an honest woman of her , i imagine .
that was good .
” george asked .
he turned right and drove on another paved street past vacant lots and scattered houses until they saw the lights
it was cold on the water .
” “i love the olden days .
he thought about one thing at a time .
it had been cropped , by sheep or goats , until it looked like a designed depression in a golf
is better not to think about it .
the tent .
and he went out of sight .
the next building was the padiglione zonda .
already in the electric light .
from the shipwreck of slave ships on the coast of south america , enough of them together with their culture
romero was wearing a black suit .
droopy had gone on down the stream to have a look , and as we lay there , reading ,
nobody ever dies the house was built of rose-colored plaster that had peeled and faded with the dampness and from
got his arms through the shoulder straps and took some of the pull off his shoulders by leaning his forehead
she ' s too fat .
“courtesy of the young gentleman’s father .
last name , unless , maybe , it was schultz .
eating .
very much , " or " thank you a thousand times , " all of which you formerly said in
the thing had come that he had expected and known would come and that he had waited all one fall
but , she said , monsieur will have to remember them .
we were going to come in , run close along the pier , let go the front and rear anchors
" " i ' d say you had a good chance .
this is the way it goes if anyone is ever interested ; which i doubt .
“well why didn’t we take the night train ?
of all .
" an accident that he hit me at all , the cabron , " he said to the interpreter .
" his father got up from the table and went out the kitchen screen door .
you go on .
but i told you last night i couldn’t .
to-night he would die and the hyenas would eat him , or , worse , they would get him before
” “let them keep the money .
make him pay for it .
“look at that .
" nick went out the farmyard and down to the barn .
” “what did you think about ?
with his hand the progress of the skiff through the water .
fingers of the forest came down on to the head of some of the slopes and it was there ,
“we can’t bring the car over .
“i’ll give you a list of what i spent and i’ll deduct what grub there is left .
” “perhaps we’d better wait until later .
she ' d out-manoeuvre you the best day you were ever born and she would stay and fight where you
what i ' ll do if he sounds and dies i don ' t know .
going to be afterward .
' ' but he was your enemy .
i had on these crêpe-soled boots and it ' s soft cotton dirt .
this restaurant was in the basement and you had to pass a guard and go through the kitchen and down
it only takes one good picador .
they were trolling along the edge of the channel-bank where the bottom dropped off suddenly from sandy shallows to twelve
' ' get you ?
” “wait till we get out west .
for the first time in his life he really felt wholly without fear .
absolutely perfect , ” kate shouted from the dock .
" i would not be rude .
” i pulled out a hair and george reached for it .
' ' no chai ?
" " yes , " jack says .
as he looked , the bull gathered himself together and charged , his eyes on the horse ' s chest
and the birds going on ahead of me and behind me .
the clouds over the land now rose like mountains and the coast was only a long green line with the
' i saw that pop was worried too , and a little nervous .
last sunlight of that day .
" asked the count after dinner .
' you can publish it in the _gazzettina_ if you like .
' ' too early in the evening .
in this higher grass i found that by half shutting my eyes i could see his trail where he had
they see that tin hat and those glasses and they think we’re running the battle .
there were two aiming stones by the side of the road that i had taken from a wall by the
he was politely contemptuous of karl .
” one of the men asked .
how they wish each other luck .
you and your brother are good friends .
“i mean it true .
” when they were out of the town and had settled down to the long black highway north through the
he didn’t want to be knocked out .
" one snatched the bottle away from the owner , who was himself about to give a demonstration .
jack wasn’t sore ; that is , he wasn’t any sorer than he always was .
he did not smile and he had always been david’s best friend and had taught him to hunt .
not at all now after the chocolate .
we went to work on the trench and in the morning the sun came up and the day was hot
” “couldn’t you be though ?
' faro , ' he whispered and reached me the glasses .
" i ' ll lean on him , " zurito said .
' nothing tendacious , you understand .
he ' s nice .
i took the shotgun , which was heavy to carry and banged against my legs , and the two game-bags
“are we going after that lion ?
“i see them together every day .
and , strangely enough , she was .
so was brett .
they’re wops , ain’t they ?
" " there ' s nothing to prove he won ' t be , " i said .
” “no , you won’t , ” manuel said .
then come back and we’ll finish the beer .
“do you feel bad ?
that typical french ivresse that you were propaganded to believe did not exist , would open their windows and then
' i ' ll skip the times .
elliot was learning the touch system on the typewriter , but she found that while it increased the speed it
he was sitting there , his arm hanging , when the boat passed them coming back up the channel .
' i want to read what mr .
as soon as we got to maisons , my old man wrote to milan for his license and he was
” “i should .
wheeler .
he knew france .
i took the gun down with great reluctance , clowning for m ' cola who was grinning , and it
molo , letti dui whiskey-soda !
" " never fall in love ?
now there were only patches of grain on the bare hillsides and on each side of the water-courses .
" he had been waiting to die all day , ever since nine o ' clock in the morning .
now we are joined together and have been since noon .
" you needn ' t be superior .
the warehouse on the bay .
i don ' t want to just hear about revolutions .
' you ' re sure you won ' t come in ?
' ' it isn ' t bad , ' pop said .
it was all different .
he raised his glass , which had been filled with the decanted new and true valpolicella .
the river and go west .
" " where are our friends now ?
in the cup .
four of the boats went on up the main canal towards the big lagoon to the north .
if i have to have it , i will open it , cost whatever it costs .
' what else ?
he had a strange face like an over-enlarged , disappointed weasel or ferret .
stories , and some of the episodes are probably based at least partly on fact .
he heard the tiller break and he lunged at the shark with the splintered butt .
” “he says he’s never been crazy , bugs , ” ad said .
“put the napkin over it .
odgar was awfully nice .
he looked , said , ' christ ' , and went back into the tent .
all see them in the light of the fire .
his pack balanced on the top of the stump , harness holding ready , a hollow molded in it from
time now he was in trouble .
' absolutely whatever you say .
also i have much pain ; enough pain .
“they’re playing out on the coast and the difference in time will bring it late enough so we can get
the bus levelled down onto the straight line of road that ran to burguete .
” “sure , ” says hogan .
“you motherless bitch , ” i said to him and told him what he could do with the money .
he had seen them come and go , and they go faster , when they go , than any other
it was a little past noon and there was not much shade , but i sat against the trunk of
' can we help ?
” “no , ” said al .
” “he’s going to get well but he’s paralyzed .
meadow around the edge of the timber , and up into the pocket at the head of the valley ;
" " thanks , " i said .
' ' no good , worthless .
he came out and said , “i’m coming with you and i’m going to pay you .
“me frankie much politics .
" " she gave me robert cohn ' s letters .
nick followed him down to the road .
i was mostly unsuccessful .
' the _gran maestro_ had been observing , without observing , with affection and without envy .
" " for my own business .
" oh , tell him to drive around .
he couldn’t have held on if he wanted to .
” “who was killed ?
pumping flow of blood , smooth against the black of the bull ' s shoulder .
' he added , ' under orders , of course .
to the scrubby dry plain that spread out below the two great blue hills .
" i ' d believe anything .
m ' cola shook his head at me .
the hungarians were backing their wagon out of an alley .
” “you know the name of that creek .
" " one of the bulls got into the crowd in the ring and tossed six or eight people .
" " isn ' t there anything we can do about it ?
" " i believe it ' s a brothel , " mike said .
' how many times ?
" " if you like .
i walked up the stairs now , i felt much better .
broke his heart , that he would be leaving before _num_ (that was sure) and he said , ' let
sword handler , who knew everything , said .
she too came from a very old southern family .
pop was her ideal of how a man should be , brave , gentle , comic , never losing his
i gave the nigger the wheel and told him to work along the edge of the stream to the eastward
but i don ' t agree with him .
" we have to get to pisa , or if possible , firenze , to-night .
i do not mean for you to speak from family pride .
he would go to kansas city and get a job and she would feel all right about it .
” “cut it out , ” nick said .
" " corto y derecho , " he thought , furling the muleta .
open window and looked out on the great canal which was now becoming as grey as though degas had painted
" frances what ?
was the wooden dock of the gritti .
' ' i ' ll check you out on what he wrote if you ever want to read him ,
now i will rest an hour more and feel that he is solid and steady before i move back to
purposeful movement .
now i want you to be a great writer .
” it was a strange and very deadly voice and i never got used to hearing it , but as
combat dreams , always , for a while after combat .
the fire , not thinking , in complete happiness , feeling the whisky warm me and smooth me as you
for sleeping .
that afternoon , late , wilson and macomber went out in the motor car with the native driver and the
you better be checked out again .
“it was all around that you were .
“i’m not paying for any cuadrilla out of sixty duros .
the bill had been paid .
i’m perfectly all right .
prices , however , had gone up .
' ' droopy ' s _beautiful_ .
making the cuts for the headskin and we standing close together and feeling fond of each other and understanding everything
” “the gun-bearer has some .
“did you ever smoke opium ?
his father was non-committal .
i asked for green gas .
" " i ' ll dig up the back , " fontan offered .
it is really cold and hard , isn ' t it ?
but the despair was going and there was only missing now as after a great loss .
can go to hell , and i ' m damn glad he ' s staying here so we won '
do you know the one ?
although the tide was going out , there were a few slow rollers .
knows all his rights .
” “copy me .
an alpine idyll it was hot coming down into the valley even in the early morning .
tell jake what robert calls you .
regular races with the jocks riding hell out of the horses .
and they had given him me for an orderly because he spoke english .
" " i wonder if they ever launder them .
then it yielded , rising in the water with the line .
bring it in , henry , " said the count .
he was nervous , and i did not try to help him any .
nick waited behind the tree and watched .
he is a good friend of mine .
“he and i , ” indicating the one who did not drink .
“where you walk from , blindy ?
we ' re going to festa the bloody english .
manuel was walking toward him with the sword and muleta .
' ' and why has it not been written ?
he was only just as wrong as hell .
“did you hear them say anything about him at the house ?
“if you see nick , dear , will you tell him his mother wants to see him ?
" " fancy , " said brett .
” after quite a long time she said , “i’m so sorry if i was selfish about your bath .
color , and after his second bull was dead and the throwing of bread and cushions was over , after
roger , will it be wonderful out west ?
' did you say _have to_ , daughter ?
watch on him .
“not for us , wemedge , ” bill said .
“a lady bear ain’t safe today .
“i wish it hadn’t happened .
how i wish those dear days were back .
“where’s fontan ?
not for us anyway .
lake .
“and i want to eat at a table with my own silver and i want candles .
but he had always thought that he would write it finally .
” “why not let up on the bitchery just a little , margot , ” macomber said , cutting the
i had coffee and the papers in bed and then dressed and took my bathing-suit down to the beach .
she liked the hotel-keeper .
” “it’s very bad .
' then we go to rome and get the clothes .
“he doesn’t know or care really .
it was two hours and a half for me .
" brett smiled at him again .
she was trembling in my arms .
“eleven stories , a novel , and poems .
, and said , “here is a paisano who needs money to go home because his mother is very sick
we watched him going from above in the timber .
” “gin and tonic .
" frances , " she said .
" " what can we talk about ?
“in the neck if you can make it .
braddocks insisted cordially .
a writer .
' ' did you make them early or late ?
“i was showing off i guess .
she had very fine hands and the man looked at them .
" we have to go , " i said .
he was very disappointed that he felt this way and more disappointed , even , that it was so obvious
' ' i know it is the most unworthy thing about the town .
“your mother wants you to come and see her , ” the doctor said .
i will make it later on .
” “i know how you feel .
” “i’d like to , ” he said .
his novelty had been that he was so short that he could barely see over the bull’s withers , but
their orders in another boat which caught three good fish the first week .
i must think of nothing and wait for the next ones .
" " how do you feel ?
the train , with nick on it , had passed through kalkaska as it started to get dark .
family , who were sportsmen , a french word pronounced with the accent on the men .
” “in the bahamas i guess .
“oh , nick , please cut it out !
there might be something masochistic in that .
” asked the sexton .
it’s frightful .
" " brett gave him what for .
should you take your medicine ?
her into the water .
he’s sleeping with some concierge .
" " or crazy like gallo .
“¿qué tal enrique ?
solid .
using the same discs in the broadcasting station , and still the siren had deceived him and given him that
” and he said “i don’t know who killed him but he’s dead all right , ” and it was
i can tell when i ' m going to have one because i talk so much .
way up if we could get through the stumps .
bill shut the door .
up the street was a little square with trees and grass where there were taxis parked .
the emotion left mike ' s voice .
“me good politics , ” frankie said .
david knew they were proud of that .
' ' what about the hotel ?
" " you mustn ' t ever get bored at your first bull-fight , robert , " mike said .
i can’t slide , billy .
' i love you .
" " how did it go ?
” “late next summer .
he hit the ground and the bull was on him .
“chances are he’ll come to drink along here , ” wilson whispered .
il est crazy pour le vin !
i was broke .
chinamen good business , eh ?
nick finished the second plateful with the bread , mopping the plate shiny .
" come on , pull into it .
he ' s a big brute , too .
' in comes the general .
bill and mike rolled .
” “oh boy , ” he said .
” in the meantime , upstairs , the sister of paco had gotten out of the embrace of the matador
try not to .
i would like to see you have something besides your kids you did not destroy sometime .
he did not mind .
” “he said his daughter , ” said the young gentleman .
“he’s just winding up .
it would be a sincere liking because it would have a sound basis .
" it isn ' t right .
” “maybe it will be all right .
where everyone was under a strain , and that he was one of only four men in civilian clothes in
he took a pint bottle out of his side pocket .
" " swiss money ?
we finish it .
" we had a drink .
it is snobbery .
the bull’s legs tightened , his eyes on the muleta .
three more tourists had stopped and were watching .
” “then if it hadn’t broken i would have caught him ?
but here at home it was all too complicated .
" i got out of the car without a peso in my pocket and i didn ' t know where
” “oh , shit , ” nick said .
” the waitress came with the two breakfasts and they both drank their cold grapefruit juice and started to eat
good night , darling .
but they held him and lifted him .
through that smoke-filled hall , down those tricky stairs , out the door , and down the street faster than
“don’t feel bad about the wine , ” i said .
there might be bad ones .
“you ain’t got human feelings .
claude got a couple of tunics from the dead and made a pillow for him .
talk the whole thing away .
it was dark .
an ax , but by the time we got back out to her the greeks had blown her open and
” nick went out the farmyard and down to the barn .
, empty gas-mask cans , a squat , tripodded machine gun in a nest of empty shells , full belts
he brought three tins to see if i did not want them opened .
' ' can ' t it be possible ?
' that tall stuff had me spooked .
the stone was chipped and split by the fire .
” “to the abandoned country .
buffalo , tembo the elephant and as well collecting specimens for the museum of natural history .
the right pocket when they were wet .
” “you wouldn’t like to play with me ?
roger , who was sweating heavily in his heavy uniform , as suitable to the subtropics in summer as shorts
i’m not ashamed of it .
suit with a silk shirt and black tie and one of those hundred-and-twenty-five-dollar panama hats .
' ' you understand what i said ?
when they signed off at four o’clock in the morning it was five o’clock in the morning in the hospital
man , who was not an old man then but was santiago el campeon , nearly three inches off balance
and why had they always quarrelled when he was feeling best ?
" what are we eating ?
his car was parked at the end of the street where ours was also standing in the lee of a
" " i believe him , " said cayetano softly .
' ' i ' m sorry that i shot .
but one looked up again nervously and i saw the dark , heavy-built antelope with scimitar-like horns swung back staring
' now should i go to the women ' s room to comb my hair and make myself presentable ,
” so they sat there in the shade where the camp was pitched under some wide-topped acacia trees with a
' ' it ' s fine he has one , ' p .
then he came out again and smashed the water white and i could see he was hooked in the side
shut the ports .
canal , her bluff bows pushing up a wave even though she had the wind behind her .
' garrick , un-head-dressed and with abdullah , appeared and pop spoke with them .
give her a winner .
' my lady has called twice , ' the concierge said in english .
both his flanks covered , and he rested solidly against the corner of the room .
they picked him up and carried him out into the car and they picked up the prisoner and put him
what difference does it make if anybody sees them ?
“au revoir , mademoiselle , ” he said .
" " well , " i said , " i went to loyola with bishop manning .
" " but we couldn ' t be sure till we got way out .
car that i would eat to-night ; but those teal were the finest of all .
“look here !
“i don’t want you to sleep with any lousy pillow , ” she said .
i thought i was writing the greatest stories ever written and that people just didn’t have sense enough to know
i was so happy and it seemed so simple and easy .
" why , then , do you not take up the use of grammar ?
just like this on a hot night .
“i shouldn’t have ever got in this war .
this boy is a very good painter , for now .
the snake may be poisonous too .
" " have another shot .
" " then what will we do afterward ?
i say , barnes !
i was proud of him .
things out .
they don ' t want to lose their money .
his cloth-covered trench helmet .
_ _num_ st soldier_--ain ' t i seen ' em ?
so bird shooting became this marvellous joke .
' ' you ' re a growing girl .
but it was in the working part of his hand .
the gypsy trotted out .
" tell him to drop the next pair on the right , " he said to the kid who started
' ' i ' ll give it right back .
with his mouth over the telephone , or on paper , nor ever has been hit .
when he’s married ?
the maid stayed outside to close the umbrella .
now i don ' t have to think of her buried in one place and be sad .
wanted to take with him .
go to sleep in the tub if you want .
wonderful .
" another quarter litre ?
' ' it won ' t be salvage , daughter , ' said the _gran maestro_ .
' the other tracker , the educated one , gave another demonstration of his education by scratching his name ,
he was drunk all right .
“we will now .
” “let’s have a drink .
" " i misjudged you , " harvey said .
he was the archivist , and all the archives of the town were in his office .
“the train is coming , sir , ” he said in french .
' ' you are , ' the colonel said .
robert cohn spent the mornings studying spanish or trying to get a shave at the barber-shop .
“gee , they’d go crazy , ” nick said .
” i woke the one who took the pictures and we started down the ridge toward brigade headquarters .
of her re-classification papers , in which was included the formal , notarized act of divorcement , in triplicate .
whatever he was , we had lost him .
one of the white men sat on his cot with his head in his hands .
i wish i was the fish , he thought , with everything he has against only my will and my
taking more chance driving that way across the plain full of holes and one thing and another than hunting on
" bad news for you , fish , " he said and shifted the line over the sacks that covered
" " i feel like hell , " i said .
the road became polished ice , stained orange and a tobacco yellow from the teams hauling logs .
' i must say i never felt better .
' it is o .
got handkerchiefs ?
their figures stay boyish when they’re fifty .
what they care about us ?
just insulted him .
looking out the open door you could see the train .
he was very happy .
he was just tight , that’s all .
“maybe he’ll get enough of it , ” guy said .
" i don ' t care .
” “new orleans is wonderful .
it carried me right down and past the port hole and i grabbed and couldn ' t hold anything and
the sword-handlers opened the heavy leather sword-cases so the red wrapped hilts of the sheaf of swords showed as the
" " oh , what the hell , " said max .
” “aw , hare , you don’t love me .
in .
ils veulent shooter les uns les autres .
“we can start with that .
it’s too damned awful .
there were trees inside and a low , stone house .
the boatman lifted the combination shooting stool and shell box out of the boat and handed it to the shooter
meat came in from karl ' s camp by some porters we sent back .
push really hard with them .
” “don’t worry , ” nick said .
” she brought the coffee from the kitchen and mr .
' ' tell me first what are the things , the actual , concrete things that harm a writer ?
” just in an ordinary tone of voice ’cause there ain’t any use him feeling around because george either can
he took his hand out of the cage .
why do you dislike it , my colonel ?
may i make you a campari with gin and soda ?
' but he had followed the discourse and , at the end , when the lieutenant-colonel d ' annunzio ,
i could always remind you .
” “starve , hell , ” i said .
" asked my wife .
do is send in a flag , and they would talk it over and come out if you were right
or , rather , it was bread toasted and buttered .
the critic explained that he liked it very much , but that so far it had been incomplete .
they were blue that day , and the snow on the high mountains shone like glass .
don ' t you like them , bill ?
excursion to madrid from paris , where he was living at the time .
it was surrounded by a sloping rim of earth that had been planted with sedge and grass , and the
the manner and the skill of the attack .
“il a tué un jack .
then the concierge started to cry .
they probably didn’t know where they were when they ran with that blow but they come close to making it
“don’t try and carry too much at once .
" " i believe it .
' ' absolutely .
” “the police took it .
" " no , not now .
he had been looking around the room .
icehouse and put it in and then fill the cup with scotch and then stir it till it’s all mixed
in the far corner the man was still asleep , snoring slightly on the intaking breath , his head back
just around behind the hill .
“i know the temptations you must have been exposed to .
fight with him .
” “all right , if that’s the way you feel about it , ” i said .
the first copain who had a bottle in his shirt which showed when he stopped and presented arms said ,
again he felt the wet muzzle against the hollow of his knee .
three main bad ones .
he leaned forward and took the ham and eggs .
” “that’s all right , ” william campbell said .
" " who are you to ask me questions ?
” “roger , do you have to make fun of it ?
i’m going to town .
“french is more cultivated .
" " you called me a pimp .
he ' s born , is where he ' s meant to go .
they put fontan in jail and they take seven hundred fifty-five dollars .
“you’d better not saw it up then , dick , ” he said , shortly .
" " how do you know ?
no gold lace nor ornaments that would make the dresses look expensive .
” “don’t you want another .
' i tried to tell him that i had a better one and that it was no good to eat
” “the attack upset her .
on this kind it ' s ninety-eight .
the man went on slowly lifting the sacked packages of liquor and dropping them over the side .
" " well , get along then .
they’ll have a copy .
i took the young irish setter for a little walk up the road and along a frozen creek , but
can you bet on bull-fights ?
but there’s an awful big country between here and sheboygan and he knows that country , too .
the whole trip had only taken ten days .
” “i’ve got my work-moccasins .
with his face up and blood all over the side of his head .
hand and the girl found two enameled cups in the packages they had brought and the carton that held a
the edge of the hemlock forest looking out over the slope of the hill to the cedar swamp and the
“wasn’t it a swell race .
sure .
four chutes just as beautiful as anything you could see just pulling slow against the sky and then one started
; and at six o’clock you could get the morning revellers in minneapolis .
that’s mr .
nor anything for the father to forgive .
it was not worth it .
' good-bye , supreme commander , ' said the _gran maestro_ and the spell was existent again and almost complete
we started off and i saw him walking toward the fire waving an arm at the natives .
" i went for a walk up by the indian camp .
marcial was the sort of thing he knew all about .
they both stopped in front of the bal .
he ate the white eggs to give himself strength .
” the absinthe had come and from the saucers of cracked ice placed over the top of the glasses water
the big prisoner had not said anything but had watched everything .
up or down ?
just about the same .
" bill ' s face sort of changed .
i want to hear all about them in the morning .
good-bye and _bonne chance_ and _hasta la vista_ .
the road curved around the headland and the wind blew through the crack in the wind-shield .
" globos illuminados , " mike said .
" fräulein , " he called the waitress .
i don ' t know what to do .
if i had not had these two months with the kids i would have been over there for it .
' you can have another when you come out .
” “i am sorry you were here alone all day” she said .
“i worry about property i got up in the bronx , i worry about property i got in florida .
he would point toward his nose with one finger and smile and shake his head , she said .
“he didn’t know what castrate meant .
“so , ” said the doctor .
' ' you don ' t know about your hand .
the ring , gesturing with his hat in a salute toward a box he could not see high up in
" " yes , " i said , " it would be nice for me to tell him .
she was very nice .
she raised her hand .
” “is a no necessity see doctor .
it had been a good trip out with the boys , once they had met in the garage and a
other chinamen write letters say everything fine .
" we turned off the avenue up the rue des pyramides , through the traffic of the rue de rivoli
the other a lieutenant of infantry and they had fought on the three key points , pasubio , grappa and
he didn’t listen to me , he was listening so hard for the music to start .
“well , you get your boy friend to sleep ?
" what do you think about the shape i ' m in ?
in the big square that was the centre of the town there was no change yet .
“i just love sheets , ” he said .
i ' ll just tell you anecdotes .
“i’m too old , ” zurito said .
' ' i do not know .
aren’t you my beau , hare ?
so the man , who was a good man , decided that he would keep the blood of this bull
outside right under their window a cat was crouched under one of the dripping green tables .
nor even on the radio .
" said the innkeeper .
it isn’t ours any more .
but do you think my hands were as great a handicap as the bone spurs ?
” “you’re not .
no sweat .
but what about the rest that he had never written ?
“i wouldn’t know , ” i told him .
“and the damn weeds are like flowers in a tree cemetery if nobody took care of it .
getting her .
i went down and looked at it again today .
pop and p .
i want a kudu , though .
it was not brilliant bull-fighting .
” “i’m ready , ” mrs .
daughter .
god-damn it where were they and what if he missed one when he got a shot , he wouldn '
“here i am , ” his sister said .
the plate said : “the bull ‘mariposa’ of the duke of veragua , which accepted _num_ varas for _num_ caballos
we halted , said ' jambo ' , and the brother talked to this seeming tribesman who had the air
after all , it was paris and not everyone has taken it .
" they all laughed .
" well , i ' ll tell you .
but that was before the smoke .
' he was almost tall , beautifully built in his town clothes , and he was the shyest man the
the driver stayed for lunch , too , and afterward we paid him and he started back to bayonne .
they looked as though they had a dirty secret , just as they had looked when he had found them
' you can stay in the sack until noon if you want .
i liked it and that part of kansas city is very beautiful .
the old woman at the table in the back of the room spoke to them and they sat down again
” “i understand it making you sad .
you know you ' ve been hurt .
” “let’s find out .
what kind of blood is it that makes a man like that ?
" where do you suppose he went ?
name francisco , and there is a madrid joke about a father who came to madrid and inserted an advertisement
i would take some though in any form and pay what they asked .
b ' wana simba killed his last kudu interrupted it long enough to state he would only hunt with abdullah
” al asked max .
i met the friend , a madrid bull-fight critic , a little man with a drawn face .
” “did you want to sleep with these ?
i’ll take them through the swamp and to the woods in back of the hotel .
them that run out from san siro .
” “richard feverel .
everything else that had been moving , in the bush on the flats , or coming down from the small
“that’ll do , ” hogan said when he saw me come in .
we were up there too long .
” i thought perhaps he was a little lightheaded and after giving him the prescribed capsules at eleven o’clock i
he is a lucky man .
“the mountains aren’t much , ” george said .
also the fact that it had been so immediate and that the dead were in consequence still as little unpleasant
it was terrible .
could change your clothes and be dry and have a drink in comfort on the bed with your feet up
' ' you did not tell me there were more , ' the girl said .
you are getting something else with the newspaper , he thought .
' they scare me stiff .
” “did you see the letter ?
" he ' d say to soldier .
not good remembering .
' ' one is not better than the other ?
' ' the kind of writing that can be done .
marjorie rowed up the point a little way so she would not disturb the line .
” “it’s a pretty good camp , ” nick said .
he had given the big rattlesnake to some indians that had come in to trade and they were pleased with
” said james .
“i don’t need it .
ce n ' est pas bon de changer sa religion .
“sergeant , ” the little man said .
did they want to catch the bull ' s eye with the capes after he was fixed and ready ?
" " no , " edna said .
good luck , miss hancock .
i turned off the light and pulled up the window curtain but it was cold if i sat up to
heh ?
“that’s not fair , ” she said .
we used to ski together .
look at the number of motor-cars now that followed the riders from town to town in a road race .
” zurito looked at manuel , avoiding his eyes .
' do you like it ?
sitting on the bank he took the bottle of marsala out of his pocket and passed it to peduzzi .
patriots , collaborators or enthusiasts .
" now she is so much dearer to me .
then there was the whirring noise of wings as large brown birds burst out of the willows and one bird
johnson , he says i’m a rummy .
glasses .
“how did you eat last night ?
" " i say .
[_he makes a face .
he held his glass in one hand and the book in the other , leaning back against nick’s chair .
he did not have to emphasize their closeness .
this one is on me , " bill said .
he don’t care about a left hand in his face .
" you know i don ' t think cohn will ever want to knock people about again .
also he wished to show he could hold his liquor and be practical .
it was nice out there but jack didn’t like it much .
" he held the line tight in his right hand and then pushed his thigh against his right hand as
“it’s given me a dreadful headache .
” there was a man in the back yard of the next house doing something to one of the front
white reports that they are in fair shape .
" " you ' ll lose it if you talk about it .
” “i’m glad it didn’t come up while we had the little accrochage , ” onie said .
he walked along the road feeling the ache from the pull of the heavy pack .
you keep behind me and a little to one side .
“i bought him in palermo , ” the american lady said .
eat ?
" don ' t touch me .
' is this the place ?
he was very short with a brown face and quite drunk and he said after all it has happened before
hernandez , running up from behind him , grabbed the end of the canvas and neatly lifted it off the
the captain paravicini , acting major , thinner and more english looking than ever , rose when nick saluted from
" yes , " he said .
you shouldn’t drink .
the brass handle of the sliding lock and the odor of eau de tavel in the kitchen and the dust
the goddamned friend killers .
' ' here are the drinks , ' the colonel said .
" here is the post .
i don’t think i slept all night .
he is rather a waste of time .
clean off the sand on account of the saw .
you know you could do it , mr .
" " you bought me a beer , " the old man said .
it to you .
there were some english and americans from biarritz in sport clothes scattered at the tables .
he was thinking well , a little too well .
i think this is the turning point .
of stalks in the heat , then crawled up to an ant hill to shoot one that was not nearly
" don ' t argue with me !
" " don ' t know .
" look at his hands , " the man said and nodded his head at the cook .
" he lies there , his eyes are open now .
only with our best wit .
they were afraid of what the squaws would do to them .
there were no tracks going down the stream so we knew they were down in the part of the stream
when they stopped the music for the crouch he hunched down in the street with them all and when they
they hit the ice almost as solidly as the big ducks .
, opened my bags for the customs , bought a ticket , went through a gate , climbed onto the
we often talked about bulls and bull-fighters .
the branches were high above .
with much joviality , much dignity and closely set cold eyes , was sitting on the bed talking with an
“you’ll like that wine , ” fontan said .
he slid over smooth off the roller .
he did not want to hunt buff with macomber in thick cover .
like hell i could .
the bird made the stern of the boat and rested there .
he had some sort of an english accent .
the blood inside his lip .
tabeshaw ?
she was hot from the running and she said , “no .
" that ' s something .
“look at the seats opposite us , ” my father said to me without looking toward them .
they went off and climbed the highest part of the ridge , from where they could see down all the
" what dance ?
would i be up for the depart ?
” “i’ll see how i do .
' ' you might as well pull out of it .
” “they’d have broke me anyway , ” he said .
“not for giant killing .
things which were his own fault .
" " i ' ve been thinking some about getting a car next year .
” “have you drunk all your drink ?
” “oh , yes , ” he said .
“i hope you get a hell of a lot of fun out of it .
but later on when you get known it does .
also i have no understanding of it .
" you fight to-morrow ?
he started to walk off down the dock looking longer than a day without breakfast .
of nothing .
so i thought we had two wounded buffalo to deal with .
joe laughed again .
going to give all my friends stuffed animals .
' ' now that she is out of the room we should wish her no bad luck .
they sat down at the counter .
” “well , ” said the chef .
we were going straight out from the dock and the dock became shorter and the shoreline opened out .
on the other side of the narrow gap that led into the open sea was another high headland .
of chicote’s and i did not wish him to be disillusioned or bitter about the waiters there before he died
“oh , yes , sir .
“and this .
” he laid the thousand-peseta note down on the floor , rolled the dice between his palms so they clicked
she had taught him to call her calutina , which was her family nickname in the south .
the front door .
' ' i am , ' i said .
" my god , " i said to him , " you go to spain .
years before when he had fished crowded streams , with fly fishermen ahead of him and behind him , nick
“what should i bring ?
i will never go in a boat again without salt or limes .
you stay here .
what the hell would he have done if he hadn ' t sat down ?
you can drink it for supper tonight .
' used to admire his writing no end .
they sent it through to him without a word and he rode a couple of times .
those little brown ones that rise around the gulfweed .
who of them ?
gave him every chance .
but couldn ' t those badly educated youths realize what sort of animal they were dealing with ?
and the colonel looked through it when it came .
" " good-night , nick , " joe garner called .
i’m going to see you get your money’s worth .
we ' re under the american consul .
we settled down to troll .
" you ' re right there , sir , " james said .
but i could cry .
he walked with his joints all slung wrong .
those kids had me spooked all right .
" " well , bung-o , " mike said .
now the water deepened up his thighs sharply and coldly .
" she just kept on laughing and shaking .
' i know how lucky i ' ve been .
” “me , too , ” the down-state man said .
they moved at a stiff-necked , stiff bodied gallop and he could see the upswept wide black horns on their
“we just started .
he smiled the shy , dark smile .
" " you ' re getting damned romantic .
no , he would not be afraid .
we were both tired of the sun .
” “you go out the back and come in the front again .
' ' you see , he is really serious about something , ' kandisky said .
he was excited to be near it .
“to the crow reservation .
hat that walked along like he was a ring master in a circus .
" " god , what a rotten dream !
i came out to the fire wearing these and mosquito boots .
tell him he can find me in the book .
“he said we would talk , ” pancho said .
my wife don’t read english but she takes the paper just like when i was home and she cuts out
why don ' t you say something , robert ?
“hullo , ” he said .
i felt certain i was going to have a shot at kudu and i wanted to take the edge off
everybody was down there swimming .
it was cool in the woods even on such a hot day .
" " truly .
' to-day , kudu .
" we paid for the message and walked back to the inn .
” “one can , with honor , denounce one’s assailant .
not hurt her .
he smiled and blinked .
“noisy beggar , ” wilson said .
beautiful style and an absolute timing and precision on high pheasants and in pass shooting at ducks .
there were many more of them .
” “i don’t know .
he furled the muleta , drew the sword out , profiled and drove in on the bull .
" we ' ll put the gear in the boat and then get some .
it ' s so childish .
like i was making the whole world and when i would read it i would think this is so good
ask m ' cola .
“look down on us and i say , ‘ah ha .
perils and all dreads , held unholdingly , to hold , to hold increasingly , unholdingly still to hold ,
” “it seems an unnecessary expense to me .
old boy .
“we might as well have a good lunch and then we won’t have to worry about a fire showing at
with a whooshing snort he smashed ahead , splashing water and snorting .
he’s done for .
” “but whose is the whisky ?
" " come on .
how many times have i done that for nothing .
he grinned .
“the money from the film all goes for ambulances .
then came the same delicate pulling touch again .
she was a journalist .
he let it go over the side and then made it fast to a ring bolt in the stern .
didn ' t you , robert ?
" then cohn broke down and cried , and wanted to shake hands with the bull-fighter fellow .
” they were sitting together on the dock leaning back against one of the big piles .
the bar didn’t move .
' ' i think i ' d better have a drink , ' the colonel said .
" you ' ll sleep all right , jack , " i said .
“i know your regular pics .
" he commenced to say his prayers mechanically .
" " is he good ?
there are more palaces in my father’s city than in all of africa and there are four great bronze horses
cut up the meat for the village .
then when we were about two miles offshore i slid him over .
when i got up to go i found i had taken off my shoes .
eat them .
how many children have you got ?
” “just get out early and wait , ” he said .
” roger wrote mr .
' ' nor bad dreams about it ?
then to me , “where’s frank ?
' then garrick came up .
i truly was not nervous when i first saw the sable , but garrick was making me nervous .
” “you’re just scared .
the mist was not foggy .
” i filled his glass .
but don’t be superior and be careful some one else doesn’t come along and take you .
a large package which he says is for the colonel .
” “well , ” i said , “you’re not right .
it ' s better to be catholique if you ' re catholique .
nick held out his glass .
as soon as it ' s wet there ' s no salt .
” “why do you carry a nigger to do it ?
then he said to the woman in the booth , ' let me try a little of that sausage ,
i started down the ladder .
i think he was sure , but he did not want to make any mistake .
can that be the time of day ?
” “lawrence’s book deals with arabia , i believe .
" " jolly good idea , " said harris .
the waiter was in no hurry to come .
" " probably it wasn ' t you .
she wore no hat and walked with a long loose stride and her hair , which was a dusty yellow
” “don’t worry about it and get some sleep .
now alone , and out of sight of land , he was fast to the biggest fish that he had
” “we ought to write to tom .
" " nobody else would behave as badly .
then , two hours later , a polish officer , recently detached from the batalion and attached to the staff
but i finally paid for it myself .
” “we’re specialists , ” claude said .
going up the stairs took a long time , and i had the feeling that i was carrying my suitcase
" i got a lot to do .
good kids .
“i cook good .
” “you shoot him , ” david had said .
what else is it you do ?
it was tender , with the peculiar slippery grace of that kicking muscle which is the tail , and the
“she owns the place .
married until he was definitely invalided out of the war , had died of pneumonia .
“he’s still jumping .
" " i ' m very worried about him , and do you know that absolutely no one has come
key .
" here ' s another telegram for you , sir .
we sung a song about the italians and they don ' t understand it .
“why should i ?
the indians , after the spaniards , after the british , after the americans and after all the cubans and
campbell the room on the plaza ?
the taxi backed up to the curb .
that ' s the great place , isn ' t it ?
' ' listen , daughter .
saw he could not speak it came a little closer , and now he tried to send it away without
except for the gramophone it wasn’t very noisy .
” the gambler , the nun , and the radio they brought them in around mid -night and then ,
" no , " said the porter .
" i ' m going to pay you .
god , we had a night .
dick put the three axes down on the little dock .
“sure is hell keeping it down , joe , ” he’d say and lean back and shut his eyes and
you have a white hunter ?
as soon as he was gone the innkeeper came into the room again and spoke to the sexton .
he took the ax out of the pack and chopped out two projecting roots .
“if the point comes up they will not shoot the shit out of us when they hear these kraut weapons
“you just told me you had no money to pay me , ” i said .
” that was the day he’d won the premio commercio with lantorna shooting her out of the field the last
the last one that you could get was seattle , washington , and due to the difference in time ,
there was smoke from small fires rising now over the hillside where men were cooking .
pretty worried till it came .
promise me we won’t have fights ?
' ' go on and tell me .
pull of the sail he felt that perhaps he was already dead .
this wind is off the mountains now and she makes it along pretty good .
" " i mean what would you rather do .
i like it very much .
well nobody ever really understood it except me , i guess .
“a torero , ” said one priest to the other .
i told you i’d come back .
“no , ” i lied .
“if you love women you’ll get a dose , ” william campbell said .
" you are very nice people , " he said .
back against the red planks .
" " you oughtn ' t to ever do anything too long .
when there were parades or speeches to the troops , and d ' annunzio , with his lost eye ,
frank sat on the front seat to drive to the barn and put up the horses .
“no one will castrate you .
“whoever saw you ever buy a drink ?
" my god !
the colonel heard the hen speak to him .
” “how’s the weather over there ?
i liked to see him hurt cohn .
i read about it in the paper .
you know what you can do with it .
" " want to hunt tomorrow ?
captain willie’s boat was two miles away now headed for boca grande .
” john says , leaning over him .
there are many kinds of stories in this book .
we met cohn as we came out of church , and although it was obvious he had followed us ,
' ' there in the hills .
” “not in jail .
i glanced back and there were the whole outfit on their bellies or hands and knees , the wanderobo-masai shaking
i found a tin cup by the fire and called to him to bring the whisky , and the blank
' the wind was very cold and lashed their faces but under the blanket there was no wind nor nothing
” “so you’re sure i’ve cut people’s throats ?
we are an old town and we had fighting men , always .
in the middle .
“but it’s chipped awfully fine .
it was the ice that had been broken to put out the decoys and it had re-frozen lightly .
i can’t say i like one better than another .
tail .
i know he ' s a bad one of some sort .
retana was still considering him , leaning back in his chair , considering him from a long way away .
" " what the hell do they know about whether a man ' s right or not ?
' jackson , we are going down the long ramp and due north from the exit to where the small
if it rained here we might not even be able to get out to the road .
“sam , ” he called .
" what are you going to do ?
" " i wish we ' d gone .
” “he exercises .
he would see them through the safari on a very formal basis—what was it the french called it ?
“let me cover you up .
could be .
' ' do you know what an unsuccessful haberdasher is ?
" when mr .
you ' ve got to go through with this thing now .
he looked at it and put it back in his pocket .
it just makes ours silly .
“they were going to shoot you when you came in to supper .
" " you go to bed .
he turned and shut the gate .
let’s not talk about it .
" " at least , " mr .
" " no , " alice said in that sweet lovely voice , " you haven ' t got any
no one will make any trouble for me in cortina .
there were four crows walking in the green field .
' go take your _bathi_ , ' p .
" " like algabeno , " i said .
there was a brass plate on the oak shield the bull’s head was mounted on .
i wish you were here now and we were in the double blind and if we could only just feel
brett went to the dressing-room .
on rare occasions i had seen what i took to be dead mules , but on close approach these always
and thought of the wife kneeling there and saying , “pedro .
' i will go to the lorry and fetch some fresh butter for lunch .
” “it won’t make you happy .
road and not dimming their lights .
“this was the only kind there was .
i grew up very rapidly in the veneto myself and i was never as old as i was at twenty-one
” “i was a whore’s assistant .
there were pools of water in the courtyard .
the other prisoner was looking out of the window .
' ' the only one i ever liked was streeter ' s .
“not you with me chained to you .
there was a green mountainside beyond the roofs .
stopped .
the knuckles .
” “most of them .
but he might wake up and see you .
he spoke in dialect and the sexton answered him .
he is much fish still and i saw that the hook was in the corner of his mouth and he
" we went into the dining-room .
i could not see the expression on his face because of the helmet .
i can’t do it while she’s along .
what will she want after that ?
we walked over to the table .
' ' splendid .
the old man was a hunter .
he stood with his back to them , bending over the fire .
then he knew he had the safety on and as he lowered the rifle to move the safety over he
well , now it was all simple except for eddy .
summer-time .
” she put the eggs and bacon down in front of him and brought in a jug of maple syrup
on board the charter boat south florida , trolling down the woman key channel because it was too rough to
" " and the bulls all came in right over them , " bill said .
" they don ' t really look like white elephants .
“now i believe in nothing .
table where the matador whose courage was gone sat with another matador who had renounced the sword to become a
" his father asked him .
, starting where it emptied into the lake and fishing back up stream , trying for all the trout i
” “he has plenty of money .
it would have been natural for him to go to sleep , but when i looked up he was looking
made a dark line .
“my heart’s broken , ” he thought .
rien que des books .
" they were a whitish patch on the gray-green of the hill .
” “i’ll need some money for that .
' also we had to wait for the possible arrival of general or field marshal bernard law montgomery who was
” “for one thing , he’s certain to be suffering .
the face had been making itself and being made for a long time .
“i wish he was here now , ” nick said .
the window was open onto the balcony and the sunlight was bright in the room .
“he has no more than the shirt on his back .
it was very beautiful coming along the hudson but it was the son of thing i did not know about
” “what do you talk about her for all the time ?
” she had been holding her hand on his thigh while he drove and now she took it away .
" the adjutant called .
l’envoi the king was working in the garden .
or a good german dog eat a good german soldier ' s ass which had been roasted by white phosphorus
” “yes ?
he leans over walcott .
" " how do i know ?
' _tembo_ , ' m ' cola said .
can only see just about so many madonnas and it gets him .
' when the hell was i ever hurt ?
it ' s not worth the trouble , ' and he buttoned the gritti envelope , with the stones inside
there was a ring at the bell-pull .
it would be very bad , a torero who speaks english .
you have a pistol , go out and shoot him yourself .
' ' not worse ?
he was a good , solid jumper , a bay , with plenty of speed on the flat , if
" " thank you , " i said .
just before we came into the town he pulled out twenty pesos .
roger drove faster now and the movement of the car through the heavy air made the air cool as it
he wasn’t strong any more .
moving pictures .
i was plenty tired .
' i ' m sorry i can ' t go on the shoot .
mike had an arm around me , and i found i was sitting on a chair .
kudu hunting was a touchy subject with him now and we let it alone .
but i wish he would have waited until after tomorrow .
there would be more lions and he was happy .
" " mighty little fishing you did on them trips , " his wife said .
“good evening .
' am i really a member of the order ?
' i ' m going to have a drink .
the sand was warm under bare feet .
i had recovered an hour by coming to san sebastian .
“enrique , how is chucho ?
part iv pursuit as happiness chapter one the road was only a track and the plain was very discouraging to
then , while we watched , there was a boom , like a rockslide .
my lousy chicken heart .
' well try and think .
long time ago good .
he walked it carefully and at the speed he should walk it .
the theatrical tracker was impatient and restless .
” the car was parallel to the patch of bush .
" " you look very fit , mike .
" right now i need the money badly .
what was the real , the actual , opium of the people ?
the dam .
a small brook running into the lake beside the hotel , and slipped into the back door of the kitchen
it makes my gut sour .
' neither of them said anything and then the girl said , ' that boy , he is a man
starry eyed bastards spending money that somebody will have to pay .
” “good , ” nick said .
' m ' cola ' s got the old man ' s coat , ' pop said .
will try that long preserved sterility ; with their quaint pamphlets gone to bust and into foot-notes all their lust
" it ' s right here in the cash box .
later i had a sudden distrust for the place and we had moved the cameras about two hundred yards to
“do you think that it is fun to do this ?
” the proprietor brought two bottles and we drank them while we read the letters .
he was anxious to know the english for corrida de toros , the exact translation .
" you ' re a dirty liar , " she said in that low voice .
i ' ve never gotten anything i prayed for .
he had tried so to keep his life from being complicated .
” she curled up beside him and was asleep .
in the hot day , and had a glass of lemon-juice and shaved ice and then a long whiskey and
" no , thanks , " he said .
bed will be a great thing .
that ' s not the way , " bill said .
nick walked up the street beside the car-tracks and turned at the next arc-light down a side-street .
" direct action , " said bill .
one whole end had caved in ; it was that started them ; making it cold up that slope the
" " i ' m sorry , " she said .
his hands smelled good from the sweet fern .
" let ' s roll for it .
' i sent molo for my boots and a raincoat , m ' cola came out with the springfield ;
' richard , ' she said .
" supper , " said the boy .
i ' ll go to mass each morning .
he felt uncomfortable and afraid that any minute a gamekeeper or a posse of citizens would come over the bank
i know you did .
" " see you at lunch .
that girl of yours got in a frightful row .
no special fear of me and i felt his pulse too and i knew why claude had done what he
' ' the tide is very high and we only just made that last bridge .
when i saw him coming he was walking fast and shaking his head .
i left the fence and started back toward the town .
” “hold him tight , ” said the doctor .
" " an hour is the same .
there were many of these inciting cards which had evidently been issued just before the offensive .
” “nothing , ” i told him .
“you want another copita ?
i wish you ' d write something sometime for our lady .
my back and neck and shoulders .
' only garrick seemed impressed in a different way .
" all for sport .
” “please do not embarrass me , ” he said .
the lines all mean nothing now .
' ' we ' ll get one .
” “anis del toro .
it ' s grand the way they bring them out .
" " i haven ' t any credit along the coast .
